Turkey took another step to shore up the battered lira, making it harder for banks to bet against the currency as the diplomatic feud with the U.S. intensified with a new round of tariffs. The lira rallied for a second day as the nation’s banking regulator limited the amount of currency swap transactions banks can participate in by half to 25 percent of shareholder equity. The move came as Turkey raised the stakes in its diplomatic feud with the U.S. by slapping taxes ranging from 50 to 140 percent on a series of U.S. goods. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who tightened his grip on power in June elections, is refusing to give in to pressure from his U.S. counterpart Donald Trump to release an evangelical pastor who he accuses of aiding a coup attempt against him two years ago. A court on Wednesday rejected an appeal for the release of Andrew Brunson from house arrest. Mitul Kotecha of TD Securities in Singapore sees pressure throughout emerging markets. The Turkish president will be speaking with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday and French President Emmanuel Macron Thursday, his spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said in Ankara. Turkey’s Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency tightened rules on swap transactions for the second time this week, after imposing a limit of 50 percent on Monday. That day, the central bank promised “all necessary measures” to maintain financial stability, although it has yet to raise interest rates, something investors and Turkish corporate and banking executives are calling for. The lira, which jumped as much as 7 percent on Wednesday, gained 3.3 percent to 6.1494 per dollar by 12:19 p.m. in Istanbul. The recovery also spilled into the bond market, with yields on 10-year local debt falling 28 basis points to 21.1 percent. The lira is down 20 percent this month and contagion from the selloff spread across emerging markets. The banking regulator’s move on Wednesday limits access to lira liquidity in the offshore swap market, driving up short-term borrowing costs and making it harder for them to borrow the currency from local lenders and bet against it. Erdogan is so far taking a tit-for-tat approach to punitive measures from the U.S. His government announced on Wednesday would impose an additional taxes on rice, alcohol and cars, just days after Trump doubled tariffs on Turkish steel and aluminum imports. The tariffs come a day after Erdogan called on Turks to boycott U.S. electronics, including the iPhone. According to Bloomberg calculations, the goods facing additional charges accounted for about $1 billion of imports last year, similar to the value of the metals subjected to U.S. tariffs. The decision shows Turkey giving a proportionate response to American “attacks” on the Turkish economy, Vice President Fuat Oktay said in a tweet. Seeking to limit the fallout at home, the banking watchdog on Tuesday took an unconventional step to support the nation’s beleaguered banks, temporarily excluding the effect of day-to-day securities losses on how their financial strength is calculated. The suspension of mark-to-market calculations on capital adequacy ratios will continue until prices of securities “normalize,” the banking regulator said in a document sent to banks on Tuesday. The "recent speculative volatility in markets" caused an “unfair erosion" in banks’ capital strength, it said. Under mark-to-market accounting, portfolios must reflect assets’ current market values rather than their book values. The average capital adequacy ratio of the banking system stands at 16 percent as of the end of June, according to official data. Every 10 percent decline in the lira reduces capital adequacy ratios by around 50 basis points on average, according to a Goldman Sachs report published on Aug. 6. Separately, the banking regulator published a new set of regulations on loan restructurings by banks, financial leasing and factoring firms in the Official Gazette on Wednesday. The new rules make it possible for lenders to extend the maturities of outstanding loans to clients, refinance them, make new loans to help troubled companies, and seek new collateral. Banks can also demand debtors sell assets to repay debts and improve their finances. Overdue loans can now be restructured within two years from the day a framework agreement is signed.