U.S. equity futures tracked declines across both Europe and Asia on Wednesday as risk appetite continued to be tested by the recent Turkey-induced turmoil. Treasuries climbed, the dollar rose to the highest in 14 months and metals slumped. After a positive start to the European session, raw material producers pulled the Stoxx Europe 600 Index down as copper and zinc fell to the lowest in more than a year. Asian shares slid earlier, with China’s benchmark down for a third day. Futures on the Dow, Nasdaq and S&P 500 all pointed to a lower open. In Turkey, the lira swung from a loss to a gain as the nation’s banking regulator moved to deter short-selling in the currency. Emerging-market currencies and shares retreated, however. The yield on 10-year Treasuries dipped below 2.9 percent. Amid thin summer trading, investor caution remains with the bull market in American stocks just one week away from becoming the longest in history and as trade tensions between China and the U.S. linger. Markets have been rocked over the past week as turmoil in Turkey weighed on sentiment across many emerging- and developed-nation assets. The country announced an additional tax on imports of a broad range of American goods on Wednesday, signaling its spat with the U.S. will continue. “I think we have not seen the worst of it yet,” Peter Tchir, Academy Securities head of macro strategy, said on Bloomberg Television. “You’ve only started to see a knock-on effect. I think this is truly the eye of the storm and we are going to get another round of emerging-market weakness.” Shanti Keleman at Coutts discusses the crisis in Turkey and emerging-market risk. Elsewhere, Hong Kong intervened to defend its peg to the dollar for the first time in three months after the local currency fell to the weak end of its trading band. Oil fell on inventory increases and as Libya’s output climbed. Several markets, including Poland and India, were closed for a holiday. Terminal users can read more in our Bloomberg Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Andreea Papuc, James Poole, and Adam Haigh