The dollar rallied for the first day in six as investors awaited a meeting of global central bankers after the Federal Reserve signaled no change to its pace of monetary policy tightening. U.S. equity futures and Treasuries were little changed. The greenback climbed against most of its peers after the Fed indicated in meeting minutes a readiness to increase rates again if the economy stays on track, although the currency gave back some of the advance after President Donald Trump said in an interview that he thought the market would crash if he got impeached. Among the biggest losers from the dollar’s surge were South Africa’s rand, which slumped after a tweet from Trump fueled speculation of possible sanctions against the country, and the Australian dollar, which is under pressure as Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull fights to keep his leadership. The euro stayed lower as data showed factories taking a hit from higher raw-material costs and global trade tensions, even as the economy overall shows signs of improvement. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index edged higher, while futures for the S&P 500 Index drifted as investors weighed Trump’s comments and continuing legal woes. MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index declined, but stocks were mixed across that region, gaining in China and South Korea but falling in Hong Kong. Central banks are once again in the spotlight as investors await comments from Fed chairman Jerome Powell later this week when he speaks at the meeting of policy makers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Familiar tensions remain in the background, however. Alongside Trump’s legal worries, traders must also digest the imposition of fresh tariffs between the U.S. and China in the midst of talks aimed at averting the worsening trade conflict. “What we’ll be focusing on in the Jackson Hole commentary is what happens when we get deeper into 2019 and how does the Fed respond to this rising uncertainty,” Richard Turnill, global chief investment strategist at BlackRock Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg TV. “Investors are going to be focusing not so much on the next quarter or two -- the path is now very clear -- but what’s the longer term path for interest rates in the United States.” Elsewhere, the Russian ruble swung from a loss to a gain after the central bank said it’s suspending purchases of foreign exchange through the end of September. Commodities were under pressure in the face of the rising dollar, with gold also slumping on the outlook for higher American interest rates. Oil edged lower after surging on a U.S. government report that showed the biggest decline in crude inventories since late July. Terminal users can read more in our Bloomberg Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Andreea Papuc, Adam Haigh, Craig Torres, and Tom Keene