Most major stocks gauges advanced on Tuesday as earnings season continued, helping buoy investor sentiment against a backdrop of trade angst and geopolitical noise. The dollar slipped against major peers and Treasuries were steady. Miners were among the big gainers in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index as commodities climbed. Futures on the Dow, S&P and Nasdaq all pointed to a higher open. Chinese stocks led a broad rally in Asia, with the Shanghai Composite Index posting its biggest gain in two years on hopes for more policy support for investment. The greenback headed for the largest drop in a week while the British pound trimmed some of its recent losses. Turkey’s lira advanced after sinking to a record low as heightened concern over a diplomatic spat with the U.S. overshadowed the central bank’s attempt to support the currency. S&P 500 companies are on pace to set a new record for earnings beats in a quarter As earnings season enters its final phase, most major U.S. companies have now reported and four out of five have surprised to the upside. That’s helped put the S&P 500 within touching distance of a record, even as investors fret the escalating trade war between America and China. Meanwhile, geopolitical concerns linger in the background, including confusion about the status of negotiations intended to lead to the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula and the Trump administration’s restoration of some U.S. sanctions on Iran. James Sullivan, head of Asia ex-Japan equities research at JPMorgan Chase, discusses the Chinese markets, the yuan. Elsewhere, crude climbed after Saudi Arabian production cuts added to concern about tightening worldwide supplies. Gold advanced with industrial metals. European sovereign bonds were mixed and range bound, although Italian notes rose. The yen edged higher after Reuters reported that the Bank of Japan had considered raising interest rates this year. Germany’s industrial production fell more than expected in June, but the euro strengthened after a recent run of losses. Terminal users can follow our Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Jeremy Herron, Randall Jensen, and Helen Sun