U.S. equity futures and European stocks followed Asian shares lower on Thursday, as simmering trade and geopolitical issues weighed on sentiment. The dollar edged higher as consumer spending data and inflation figures met expectations. Contracts for the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq all pointed to a drop at the open, after America’s benchmark gauge on Wednesday closed above 2,900 for the first time. Telecom and real estate companies led the retreat as almost every sector fell on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Treasuries edged higher with core European bonds. Sterling fluctuated and the euro slipped after the EU’s chief negotiator warned the bloc must be prepared for a disorderly Brexit. In Asia, Japanese equities erased earlier gains to finish little changed and stocks fell in Hong Kong and China. The Australian dollar declined after second-quarter business investment was worse than expected, while New Zealand’s currency slumped as business confidence hit a 10-year low. Equities have rallied as August draws to a close, with a gauge of world stocks heading for a second weekly gain and U.S. shares posting fresh all-time highs. Yet investors remain cautious amid a slew of risks to the global outlook, not least U.S. trade and foreign policy. President Donald Trump on Wednesday accused China of undermining American efforts to pressure North Korea into giving up its nuclear weapons -- a potential indication that his trade war with Beijing is exacerbating geopolitical tensions. Elsewhere, oil futures added to gains following a bigger-than-expected decline in U.S. crude stockpiles. Gold nudged lower, set for its fifth consecutive monthly drop. The rand slumped while the lira tumbled on a Turkish holiday amid reports the central bank’s deputy governor is set to resign. Terminal users can read more in our Bloomberg Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events scheduled for the remainder of this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Andreea Papuc, Cormac Mullen, and Adam Haigh