U.S. equity futures edged lower while stocks in Europe and Asia were mixed as traders tried to gauge the fallout from the latest legal drama engulfing Donald Trump’s presidency. Treasuries held steady, while the euro advanced after data showed wages surged. The guilty plea by Trump’s former attorney to illegal campaign-finance charges over hush money helped send U.S. equity futures lower and initially sparked mild demand for haven assets, though many moves pared and there was little sign of a pronounced impact in markets beyond America. Futures on the Dow and S&P 500 slipped, while they nudged higher on the Nasdaq. Germany’s DAX Index pared gains after tiremaker Continental AG cut its guidance, and the single currency rallied after data on last quarter showed the biggest jump in wages since 2012. Trump’s newest legal woes add to a complex picture across global markets. U.S. stocks are trading near record highs while 10-year Treasury yields remain well below 3 percent, as investors grapple with the evolving dynamics of the American tax cut, an escalating trade war and turmoil in emerging markets. Fed minutes on Wednesday may give more insight into monetary policy after Trump decried interest-rate increases. Later in the week a gathering of central bankers at the Jackson Hole retreat in Wyoming may offer further clues on rates. “This market will focus on a couple of factors: does this change the math for the mid-term elections, does this cause polls to shift in a material way?´´ said Andrew Sheets, chief cross-asset strategist at Morgan Stanley, in a Bloomberg TV interview. “The market’s going to be watching very closely Friday in Jackson Hole. Does the Fed continue to sound like they are going to continue to tighten policy?” Elsewhere, crude added to gains in New York after an industry group reported a steep drop in U.S. crude stockpiles. Mexico’s peso jumped as the nation edges toward a new Nafta deal with the U.S. Terminal users can read more in our Bloomberg Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh, and Francine Lacqua