European shares slipped on Wednesday following a mixed session in Asia as earnings misses and concern over global trade kept markets in check. The dollar erased an earlier decline and China’s yuan steadied as its central bank was said to seek currency stabilization. Health-care and insurance companies dropped on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, offsetting gains in technology, while raw materials firms lost ground as Glencore Plc. missed its earnings forecasts. Futures on the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were steady, with Tesla Inc. shares set to be closely watched after Elon Musk suggested taking the company private. Asia’s benchmarks gave up some earlier advances, as shares in China notched many of the bigger declines. The dollar recovered while the pound weakened as traders sought protection against a no-deal Brexit. Treasury yields were steady ahead of the biggest-ever 10-year note auction. Adding to previous moves to ease pressure on the yuan, the People’s Bank of China urged some lenders to prevent any “herd behavior” and momentum-chasing moves in the currency market, according to people familiar with the matter. Global trade tensions welled up again as the U.S. said it will begin imposing 25 percent duties on an additional $16 billion in Chinese imports in two weeks. It will be the second time Washington slaps tariffs on Chinese goods in about a month. Even so, exports from the second-biggest economy grew faster than expected in July and imports surged, signaling the trade war has yet to take a toll on shipments as it has on equities. This is a modal window. Hannah Anderson, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, discusses the trade tensions. Elsewhere, emerging market shares advanced and their currencies held steady even as the Turkey’s lira erased most of Tuesday’s gains, as investors said there’s no easy way to rescue its financial markets. Terminal users can follow our Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Jeremy Herron, and Andreea Papuc