There were broad declines across equities on Monday and a sell-off in developing-nation currencies as the ongoing economic crisis in Turkey bled into global markets. The dollar climbed and the yen jumped. Banks were among the biggest losers as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell, amid concern the sector is heavily exposed to borrowers in Turkey. The lira tumbled alongside the country’s benchmark equity index after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan maintained his defiance toward the U.S. and financial-market orthodoxy in speeches on Sunday. Central bank moves to boost liquidity provided little relief. The pressure spread across emerging-market assets and the South African rand hit the lowest since June 2016. Futures on the Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq also all retreated following big declines across Asian markets. The greenback traded at the strongest in a year and the euro weakened. Treasuries rose and Italian bonds fell, while gold tested lows near $1,200 an ounce. Read the latest on how policy making paralysis in Turkey promises more tumult. The lira’s plunge and subsequent sell-off in Turkey is giving investors an unwelcome reminder of past crises in emerging markets, rattling nerves worldwide and leaving traders speculating on how bad contagion can get. Developed markets have historically shown resilience to developing-nation angst, but as the drama unfolds the preference is for safer assets, in particular U.S. Treasuries. The rout in the lira “may fuel volatility in emerging-market assets and dampen investor sentiment in the near term, as markets are already skittish,” said Kerry Craig, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management. “But the drivers of the lira’s decline are very specific to Turkey -- therefore it should not derail the positive fundamentals in other emerging markets over a longer-term.” Peter Toogood of Embark Group, discusses the U.S. dollar and central bank intervention in emerging markets. Elsewhere, commodities dropped, with West Texas crude trading below $68 a barrel after Iran ruled out talks with the U.S. heightened concerns over global supply, offsetting signs of a potential increase in American output. Terminal users can read more in our Bloomberg Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh