State-controlled ABN Amro Group NV is to cut 250 jobs in its underperforming corporate and institutional banking unit, in an effort to boost overall returns. The lender will pare back its activities in trade and commodity finance and other business in which earnings are volatile, ABN said on Wednesday. The bank also reported better-than-expected developments at its core lending business in the second quarter, with net income beating the highest analyst estimate. The shares rose the most in eight months. Since ABN’s rescue by the Dutch state in 2009, the bank has been shrinking to focus on lending to homeowners and businesses closer to its home market in the Netherlands. The bank is on course to increase dividends after its core capital level -- a key measure of its financial strength -- rose sharply, increasing the leeway for a higher payout. “We like the quarter, the CIB plan and the prospect of additional returns,” RBC analysts led by Adrian Cighi said in a note to clients. RBC rates the shares at Outperform. They were up 4.0 percent in Amsterdam by 9.20 a.m. at 24.27 euros. The cuts account for around one in 10 jobs at a unit that accounts for barely a tenth of ABN’s overall headcount.  Wednesday’s cuts follow a similar pruning of the private bank last year. “The business is core and the bulk of it is operating satisfactorily,” Chief Financial Officer Clifford Abrahams said in a Bloomberg Television interview. He said that in addition to trade and commodity finance, it would also cut “other elements of our portfolio that have shown volatility, that are highly cyclical, where we’re not getting the kind of risk-adjusted returns that we’re looking for.” Abrahams said the bank’s main operations continued to be underpinned by strong economic growth in the Netherlands. “We’ve seen growth of 3 percent in GDP, and we’d expect that to continue,” he said. Mediobanca analyst Robin van den Broek said that while the bottom line was bolstered by one-off factors, underlying profit was still ahead of expectations, and that the drop in provisioning was welcome. Van den Broek also drew attention to the sharp rise in the bank’s core capital ratio, a precondition for a higher dividend. ABN kept its interim payout unchanged, but Van Dijkhuizen hinted at an increase later this year if profits rise as expected. He added that the planned cuts to the corporate bank unit will strengthen the group balance sheet further, reducing risk-weighted assets by 5 billion euros. They will cut annual running costs by 80 million euros ($93 million), and the bank will take a charge of 50 million euros to cover the restructuring. The improved performance may help to improve spirits at the bank whose upper echelons have been in turmoil recently, after a cull of senior management last year and the departure in February of its chairwoman, Olga Zoutendijk. Rumblings of discontent have continued since then, with some employees appealing to the bank’s state owners to step in and give firmer leadership. Highlights from the 2Q earnings release: