Asian stocks declined as trade worries came back to the fore, while Japan’s 10-year bond yield continued to rise Thursday to the highest in almost 18 months following the central bank’s decision earlier this week to allow for wider movements. Treasury yields held just under 3 percent. China and Hong Kong equity indexes led losses across the region, while emerging-market currencies fell with developing nation stocks. The 10-year JGB yield touched 0.145 percent, its highest since February 2017. Ten-year Treasury yields edged down after reaching 3 percent this week for the first time since June as the Federal Reserve unanimously decided to leave rates unchanged while making it clear borrowing costs are headed higher. The offshore yuan stabilized. Higher U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods look increasingly likely. President Trump asked the U.S. Trade Representative to consider increasing proposed levies on $200 billion in imports to 25 percent from 10 percent, which could be implemented as soon as next month. The move comes just as Washington and Beijing are exploring ways to get back to the negotiating table. “Markets are now wary of the next step in the trade war between the U.S. and China,” Nick Twidale, chief operating officer at Rakuten Securities Australia, said in a note. “With the U.S. threatening to increase tariffs to 25 percent from 10 percent and the Chinese vowing not to react to ‘blackmail’ to get them back to the negotiating table, this could be the catalyst that tips sentiment and some markets into a tailspin especially as we enter the lower liquidity holiday trading season.” With the Bank of Japan and Fed now out of the way, focus turns to the Bank of England. Later Thursday, the central bank is expected to raise its key rate by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent, with Bloomberg Economics projecting an 8-1 vote. This is a modal window. Scott Minerd, Guggenheim Partners co-founder and global chief investment officer, discusses Fed policy and markets. Elsewhere, oil steadied around a two-week low after a surprise gain in U.S. crude inventories exacerbated supply concerns. Turkey’s lira hit a record low as the U.S. imposed sanctions on its NATO ally over the imprisonment of an American pastor. Malaysian trading was disrupted due to a technical problem. Read more on that here. Terminal users can follow our Markets Live blog here. Here are some events to watch out for during the remainder of this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sarah Ponczek, Olivia Schaber, and Chikafumi Hodo