The U.K. Treasury is said to have approached Bank of England Governor Mark Carney about staying in his role for another year to help the country through Brexit, according to the Evening Standard newspaper. A Treasury spokeswoman denied the story, saying it doesn’t recognize the reporting. A Bank of England spokesman declined to comment. Mark Carney in July. Nevertheless, the speculation about Carney’s future belies the unease in Prime Minister Theresa May’s government as talk of a no-deal Brexit gets louder. May herself said this week that leaving the European Union without a transition deal in place “wouldn’t be the end of the world,” pushing down the pound. Carney has already extended his tenure at the central bank to the end of June 2019 to provide continuity through the Brexit negotiations. When he started at the BOE in 2013, he planned to stay for only five years, but four months after Britain’s decision to leave the European Union he announced his decision to stay on to help with an “orderly transition.” Asked in a Bloomberg interview in July if he’d extend it again, Carney, 53, said “nothing’s changed” about his plans. The newspaper didn’t say where it got the information. The BOE governor is appointed by the U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer. Philip Hammond, currently in that role, so far hadn’t said who he might be considering to succeed Carney and the application process hasn’t formally started. Earlier this month the Press Association reported that the Treasury was writing the job posting and probably planned to post it by the end of September. The talk about a fresh approach to Carney adds drama his already complex tenure. He was appointed to the role in late 2012 after previously saying he wasn’t interested in the job, and then there were questions over the duration, with Carney initially agreeing to serve five years of what is usually an eight-year term. He also faced calls by some lawmakers for his resignation over his comments about the Brexit vote. After the BOE’s August interest-rate decision at which policy makers raised the benchmark to the highest since 2009, Carney said that the risk of the U.K. leaving the EU without a deal was “uncomfortably high.” He also said that Brexit could mean that interest rates will need to go higher or lower, and that much depends on the agreement that the government strikes with Brussels.