Asian stocks were set for a mixed end to the week after U.S. equities edged lower and the dollar climbed following the latest salvo in the trade war, and as traders awaited an address from the Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell. Futures indicated a higher start for shares in Japan and Australia, while Hong Kong equities pointed to declines. The S&P 500 Index slipped as trade-sensitive stocks paced declines, while a rally in tech shares helped mute the benchmark’s drop. President Donald Trump signaled Thursday he’d press on with the trade war and the dollar rose for the first time in six days, with attention now shifting to Powell’s scheduled comments at Jackson Hole later Friday. “Any comments on current Fed policy will draw even more than the usual attention given recent and unprecedented criticism of the Fed by President Trump,” said Larry Hatheway, chief economist at GAM Investments in London. “While Powell prefers to speak plainly and in non-technical terms, he may find reason to take a more guarded approach in order to avoid the appearance of open conflict with the Administration.” Turmoil in emerging markets, ongoing trade tensions and high stakes going into November midterm elections in the U.S. aren’t steering bond traders away from bets that the Fed will hike rates twice by the end of the year as the economy grows fast enough to warrant tighter policy. Richard Turnill, global chief investment strategist at BlackRock, says Fed rate hikes are priced into markets. Elsewhere, the British pound fell the most in two weeks after U.K. officials warned that Brexit could raise prices. The Russian ruble swung from a loss to a gain after the central bank said it’s suspending purchases of foreign exchange through the end of September. The Aussie dollar remained under pressure as Australia’s Malcolm Turnbull battles for survival as Prime Minister. Terminal users can read more in our Bloomberg Markets Live blog here. These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Randall Jensen, and Sarah Ponczek