The South African Reserve Bank won’t intervene to prop up the rand unless the orderly functioning of markets is threatened, Deputy Governor Daniel Mminele said. The rand slumped early Monday to its weakest level against the dollar in more than two years. Emerging-market assets fell after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan showed no signs of backing down in a standoff with the U.S. administration, deepening concern that the country is sliding toward a financial crisis. While South Africa’s central bank is monitoring the currency, it prefers that market forces determine the exchange rate, Mminele said by phone from Pretoria, the capital. Daniel Mminele “Where we find ourselves in a situation where there could be market dislocation, where there could be a threat to the orderly functioning of our markets, we certainly would consider becoming involved there, but our judgment is what we have seen does not get us to a situation where we need to consider that at the moment,” he said. “We would not become involved with a view of influencing the exchange rate in a particular direction or wishing to stem the depreciating pressure in a very targeted way.” The rand pared its decline to trade at its strongest level for the day after Mminele’s remarks and was 2.2 percent weaker at 14.4163 per dollar by 7:20 p.m. in Johannesburg. His comments re-emphasized the central bank’s independence from government interference and the focus on its inflation mandate. “It is important to make sure that central banks follow sustainable and prudent monetary policies,” Mminele said. The Reserve Bank targets inflation in a band of 3 percent to 6 percent. It held the key interest rate last month, citing the rand as a risk to the price outlook. The Monetary Policy Committee will only respond to currency weakness if it feeds through to the wider economy, Mminele said. Pass-through from currency weakness into South African consumer prices has weakened in recent years, a study by economists from the World Bank and International Monetary Fund has shown, making it even less likely that the central bank will raise interest rates any time soon. The consumer-inflation rate has been inside the target range for more than a year, and is forecast to remain there through 2020. South Africa’s central bank raised its inflation forecast last month Source: Statistics South Africa, South African Reserve Bank  “We would not overreact to initial price pressures and would be guided by our collective judgment and assessment of how we see knock-on effects and second-round effects of any price pressures that then could contribute to inflation,” he said.