The initial panic over Turkey’s market meltdown has eased. The lira, the world’s worst performer this year, and South Africa’s rand led the advance as some investors say Turkey’s problems are unique and others look for buying opportunities across emerging markets. The MSCI EM index of currencies rose 0.2 percent as of 8:24 a.m. in London, while the measure tracking developing-nation equities was little changed. The lira jumped more than 5 percent against the dollar, the rand added 2.2 percent and Russia’s ruble increased 1.5 percent. Indian’s rupee, which hit the 70-per dollar mark for the first time, recovered losses to rise 0.1 percent. Some analysts say there are few fundamental reasons for assets across emerging markets to fall because of the lira. With average inflation rates at record lows and current-account balances improving, the developing world is diverging from Turkey. Still, the sell-off has helped make valuations attractive. An index of emerging-market stocks is near the cheapest since early 2016, before a two-year rally started. “After a large sell-off triggered by the rout in Turkey, some investors may have bought emerging currencies on dips,” said Toru Nishihama, Tokyo-based emerging-market economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. “The global economy is still expanding and that’s providing underlying support for the emerging markets. But Turkey’s problems from its spat with the U.S., issues of central bank independence and inflationary pressures are not resolved, which means downward pressure on Turkish assets will continue for a while.” The Turkish lira surged Tuesday as local retail accounts sold dollars to take profits after the currency’s slide. Read more: Turkish Lira Rebounds as Locals Sell Dollars Amid Thin Liquidity Even with the rebound, the lira has plunged 25 percent this month as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan lashed out at the U.S., took higher rates off the table and said he wouldn’t accept an international bailout, traders pushed down Turkish assets in a sell-off that spilled over to other developing countries. “EM has already seen a large sell-off between April to July and negative developments in Turkey will eventually be seen (along with Argentina) as isolated given their exceptional external imbalances compared to most EM countries,” JPMorgan analysts including Luis Oganes and Jonny Goulden wrote in note to clients. Officials in some emerging markets responded to the situation in Turkey. Argentinian policy makers boosted the main interest rate, already the highest in the world, to 45 percent. The Bank of Thailand isn’t taking pre-emptive steps amid the rout in Turkey as markets are reacting in an orderly manner, Assistant Governor Chantavarn Sucharitakul said. The South African Reserve Bank won’t intervene to prop up the rand unless the orderly functioning of markets is threatened, Deputy Governor Daniel Mminele said Monday. South Korean financial companies had $1.22 billion of exposure to Turkey as of March, and the impact on the country’s markets will be limited, the Financial Services Commission said in a text message. Not all emerging-market assets rose. Some higher-yielding currencies in Asia fell, with Indonesia’s rupiah and Philippine peso declining 0.1 percent, each. While Asian emerging markets are relatively isolated from what’s happening in Turkey, foreign investors that have bond exposure to the country may have also cut holdings in other developing nations to offset losses or hedge their position, said Maximillian Lin, an emerging-market Asia strategist at NatWest Markets in Singapore. That’s likely to drive currencies weaker, he said, adding that North Asia is more resilient due to less reliance on external funding. — With assistance by Aline Oyamada, Kyungji Cho, Netty Idayu Ismail, and Constantine Courcoulas