U.S. equity futures were steady on Wednesday and European stocks edged upward following a lackluster Asian session, with investors seemingly treading water as they await the next developments on trade. The dollar gained after American growth figures were revised higher. S&P 500 futures pared an earlier advance though pointed to a firm open, while contracts for the Nasdaq rose. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index swung from a gain to a loss and back again, but moves were small and shares in the U.K. and Spain were a drag on the main gauge. Retailers were among the worst performers in the region after Morgan Stanley analysts cut their recommendation for the owner of the Zara clothes chain. Emerging-market assets were under pressure as the dollar gained a second day and Treasuries edged higher. Earlier, shares in Japan and Australia set the pace as the MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed, though stocks in China dropped. The pound was steady as traders weighed news that the deadline for a Brexit deal may slip. The euro weakened after the Italian government was reported to be hoping for a new program of European Central Bank bond purchases. Investors appear to lack some conviction as the Northern hemisphere’s traditional vacation period grinds to a close. U.S. stocks remain at an all-time high, while the rest of the world has been playing a gradual game of catch-up. However risks abound, from legal threats to President Trump’s administration and turmoil in emerging markets to ongoing trade tension between the world’s major economies. “We don’t know where China is on this,” David Ader, chief market strategist at Informa Financial Intelligence, said on Bloomberg Television. “I tend to be more pessimistic that we are going to come away with trade deals that are going to make everybody satisfied, but we are trading headlines, we are trading the sensitivity to those headlines, so for the moment it looks good.” Mark Howard, senior multi-asset strategist at BNP Paribas, discusses Federal Reserve policy and the yield curve. Elsewhere, the Australian dollar dropped with bond yields as expectations for central bank interest-rate increases were slashed. Emerging-market currencies retreated as Turkey’s lira fell a third day. Terminal users can read more in our Bloomberg Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh, Gina Martin Adams, and Kevin Kelly