Crude advanced to a three-week high as the OPEC-led alliance of major oil producers accelerated the time line for curbing a worldwide supply glut. Futures in New York climbed 2.2 percent on Tuesday. Global crude supplies will come into balance with demand by the end of September, sooner than previous forecasts, according to the special committee appointed by the OPEC-led group to oversee their historic accord. Concerns that President Donald Trump may toughen sanctions against Iran -- OPEC’s No. 3 producer -- also fanned the rally. The OPEC-allied nations are “pretty much sticking to their guns and they continue to say they are in it until the oversupply is done,” said Bart Melek, head of global commodity strategy at TD Securities in Toronto. Record U.S. crude production, coupled with mounting levels of stored supplies in American tanks and terminals, has so far forestalled any major price breakouts. Futures have traded in less than a $4-range this month. Yet, Citigroup Inc. says the recent “sideways trading” is unlikely to last as the market moves closer to balance. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman said during a White House meeting with Trump on Tuesday that he sees a “stable” oil market ahead, adding that the kingdom has an 84-year supply of crude. West Texas Intermediate for April delivery, which expires Tuesday, advanced $1.34 to settle at $63.40 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest level since Feb. 26. The more-active May futures contract rose $1.41 to end the session at $63.54. See also: Refiners get boost from Barclays note saying now is time to buy Brent for May settlement surged $1.37 to settle at $67.42 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The global benchmark crude traded at a $3.88 premium to WTI for the same month. The special committee established to monitor compliance by the nations aligned with Saudi Arabia and Russia to curb supplies said its time line assumes Libya and Nigeria keep output at February levels and other participants in the deal maintain full adherence, according to the people familiar with the matter who weren’t authorized to discuss it publicly. In the U.S., crude stockpiles probably expanded by 3.25 million barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg survey ahead of a government report scheduled to be released on Wednesday. Inventories held at the key Cushing, Oklahoma, pipeline hub probably rose by 200,000 barrels last week, a forecast compiled by Bloomberg shows. Last week’s inventory report showed crude stockpiles rose in the U.S. for a third straight week and production hit a record high. “The bottom line is, with oil at these prices, it’s hard to slow down the shale in the U.S.,” said Michael Corcelli, chief investment officer of hedge fund Alexander Alternative Capital in Miami. Activity in the oil patch is “out of control and you can see it in the output that we’re actually generating.” The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute will release its weekly inventories data later on Tuesday. Other oil-market news: — With assistance by Tsuyoshi Inajima, and Grant Smith