A councilwoman and human rights activist was killed in a hail of gunfire in Rio de Janeiro, dealing a blow to President Michel Temer’s efforts to use a high-profile military intervention to smother violence in Brazil’s postcard city. Marielle Franco, a 38 year-old black politician born in one of Rio’s slums, was returning home from an event in the city center late Wednesday when a car pulled alongside hers and opened fire, local media reported. Franco’s driver was also killed, but an aide traveling with her survived. Outside the scene where Marielle Franco was found dead in Rio on March 15. Temer said via Twitter that he laments Franco’s murder, describing it as "an act of extreme cowardice." He delayed a previously-scheduled event at the presidential palace to hold a cabinet meeting on Rio’s security, and said the federal police willing to help with the investigations. Her violent death underscores challenges in reducing bloodshed in Brazilian cities, many of which rank among the most violent in the world. Violence is particularly intense in Rio de Janeiro, where criminals frequently clash with police forces, causing the shutdown of major motorways and disrupting the local economy. Temer last month ordered the military to take over Rio’s security, and public order has become a central theme ahead of this October’s presidential election. Army Will Need More Than Guns to Fix Rio de Janeiro Crime Finance Minister Henrique Meirelles, who is contemplating a bid for the presidency, said the assassination underscores the need of the Rio military operation. "Those who did this need to be punished," Meirelles said during a radio interview. Franco was a vocal critic of police violence against civilians, as well as a member of a city council committee overseeing the military intervention in Rio. Members of her family and her party were unaware of any threats against her life, according to local media. Rio de Janeiro state public defenders said Franco’s death looked like an execution and could be linked to her work on behalf of poor communities and shantytowns.