Societe Generale SA Deputy Chief Executive Officer Didier Valet is leaving the company after a “divergence of approaches” in treating a specific legal matter predating his appointment to that role. Valet resigned “in order to preserve the bank’s general interests,” Paris-based SocGen said in a statement, without identifying the specific dispute. SocGen’s board decided at a meeting Wednesday that Valet won’t receive any severance pay, the bank said. Didier Valet The company said in November that it was in talks to potentially settle a U.S. investigation into alleged manipulation of the Libor interest rate, as well as a probe into accusations of bribery in Libya. CEO Frederic Oudea repeated in February that SocGen has “the objective to put these litigations behind us in the next weeks or months.” Valet, the bank’s former chief financial officer who now oversees its investment bank, was considered a potential successor to the firm’s top job since being named one of three deputy CEOs in January 2017. Oudea is temporarily taking over Valet’s functions and a replacement will be announced shortly, the bank said. The U.S. Justice Department’s probe into interest-rate manipulation scrutinized the activities of senior Societe Generale officials, people familiar with matter said in November. The government has collected documents suggesting Societe Generale executives were aware that bankers there were submitting fake U.S. dollar Libor rates, the people said. Such misleading numbers, which made bank borrowing costs often look lower than they actually were, have been the focus of years of U.S. and European investigations. Yet such allegations have rarely touched global banks’ upper reaches. Valet had joined the firm in 2000 as an analyst and became CFO eight years later. In 2012, Valet became head of SocGen’s corporate and investment bank, which houses one of the largest global equity derivatives businesses. SocGen’s trading unit weathered the low volatility of late 2017 better than some rivals as revenue from equities and prime services jumped in the fourth quarter. The firm’s American depositary receipts fell 2.5 percent in New York trading on Wednesday to $11.04.