A rally in Asian stocks petered out on Friday, and the yen climbed, as investors considered the implications of continuing personnel turmoil in the Trump administration. Japan’s currency, often the go-to asset in times of uncertainty, advanced after the Washington Post reported that President Donald Trump plans to remove his national security adviser; a White House official said no final decision has been made. Stocks were already lower in the region before the reports, with a lackluster session in the U.S. overnight offering little fresh direction ahead of next week’s Federal Reserve policy meeting. Ten-year Treasury yields are heading for a weekly drop after a softer tone in U.S. economic data. Any removal of H.R. McMaster as the national security adviser would follow the resignation of the White House’s top economic adviser, Gary Cohn, and the ouster of the secretary of state. Investors were earlier weighing the prospects for heightened U.S. trade protectionism after new White House appointee Larry Kudlow said he’d sell gold and buy the greenback, which gained on Thursday. "Those developments are negative for dollar-yen and the Nikkei," Tohru Sasaki, head of Japan markets research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, said of the news on the departure of top U.S. policy makers. At the same time, "the market is getting used to political problems," both in the U.S. and Japan, he said on Bloomberg Television -- so moves may be short-lived. A political scandal in Japan, with the potential resignation of the country’s finance minister, remains a focus for traders. Weekend poll results on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s approval rating may prove key. Also upcoming is a Monday vote in China’s legislature on the next central bank chief in the world’s No. 2 economy. Elsewhere, West Texas crude traded above $61 a barrel as signs of stronger U.S. fuel consumption balanced OPEC’s forecasting for the first time that new supplies from its rivals will exceed demand growth this year. Terminal users can read more in our markets blog. Here are some of the key things happening as the week ends: And these are the main moves in markets: