Want to receive Balance of Power in your inbox every morning? Sign up for the newsletter here, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more.From the U.S. struggling with China’s rising geopolitical clout to Egypt’s baby boom, here’s your round up of Bloomberg’s best political stories from the past week, and some other ones, too. Enjoy! The 24 Hours That Exposed Trump’s Strategy Gap With ChinaKeith Zhai looks at a day that illustrates why the U.S. is struggling to counter China’s rising geopolitical clout.Kushner Conflict Cloud Hovers Over Brooklyn Sale Linked to Japan  Caleb Melby exclusively reports on how the family company of presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner sold a stake in a building to a unit of a firm whose largest shareholder is the government of Japan – the first such known deal with a government-affiliated company during Kushner’s tenure in the West Wing.The Arab Spring’s Riskiest Legacy May Be Egypt’s Baby BoomMarc Champion and Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo examine how the addition of 11 million Egyptians in just seven years will weigh on government budgets and the economy for a generation. A Trump-Kim Summit Could Unfreeze Mining Riches on the Korean BorderDexter Roberts travels to a remote stretch of the Chinese-North Korean frontier to report on mining infrastructure that’s well positioned to take off if there are successful talks between North Korea’s Kim Jong and Trump.Michael McKee sat down with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau this week to discuss tariffs, the status of Nafta talks, and the future of cross-border commerce with the U.S. To see the video, and read the story, click here. For an alternative take on who matters in global affairs, we picked 16 countries and ranked their leaders on their domestic muscle. See our dataviz for more.Meet the Arabic-Speaker Who Might One Day Succeed NetanyahuGwen Ackerman profiles Israeli Minister of Finance Moshe Kahlon, who’s at the top of the list of potential successors to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.Women Lose Out to Men Even Before They Graduate CollegeJackie Gu draws on data from the American Community Survey of educational attainment, occupation and income to present a series of charts that show women are less likely than men to have careers aligned to their field of study, and take jobs that typically have lower earning potentialAnd finally … Nathan Myhrvold, the former chief strategist and chief technology officer at Microsoft, recalls his time as a postdoctoral researcher with British physicist and black-hole theorist Stephen Hawking, who died this week aged 76. See the Bloomberg View website for that piece, and others. For snapshots from Hawking’s life, click here. 