European Union leaders discussed trade tariffs and Brexit on Friday after a late night as they were kept up waiting for confirmation from U.S. President Donald Trump that the bloc was indeed exempt from the new levies. May scored a relative success late Thursday as EU colleagues supported the U.K.’s assertion that Russia was to blame for the poisoning of a spy in Salisbury, England. Several EU countries, including the Czech Republic, are considering ousting some Russian diplomats, following the U.K.’s lead. Germany’s Angela Merkel said: “We are united in our language, but if necessary also to react together with further action.” Leaders have also signed off on the next stage of Brexit talks and will discuss the euro zone later. For the latest developments on trade, see our Live Blog. On everything else being discussed at the summit, we will be following developments here. May left mid-morning -- she was meant to leave last night but stayed on to discuss trade this morning. She leaves with a win, as EU leaders toughened up their language on the Russian spy poisoning. Still, some nations this morning said they wouldn’t follow her lead and expel Russian spies, and Bulgaria was asking for more proof. “I welcome the fact that last night the European Union Council agreed with the U.K. government’s assessment of the attempted murder that took place on the streets of Salisbury: it was highly likely that Russia was responsible for that attack and there was no plausible alternative explanation.” “The threat from Russia is one that respects no borders and I think it’s clear that Russia is challenging the values that we share as Europeans and it’s right that we are standing together in defense of those values.” The EU has recalled its ambassador in Russia for consultations. May also welcomed the fact the Brexit transition and negotiating guidelines were adopted. EU leaders adopted the guidelines on how the EU will approach the negotiations on the post-Brexit trading relationship. For a reminder of what they say: EU Shoots Down May’s Brexit Demand for Best Access for Banks Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov says "it’s much harder than during the Cold War. There were some rules back then. Now everyone is so tough that I’m not optimistic.” An escalation is “highly likely.” Boyko Borissov on March 23. “From now on I expect in the next weeks fast escalation of the tension, because many states will start recalling their ambassador,” he said. He asked for more proof that Russia was behind the poisoning, and reminded May of U.K. claims more than a decade ago that Iraq had chemical weapons before the U.S.-led invasion. “I asked for more proof for switching from high likelihood to full likelihood. But what’s important is that despite Brexit, the U.K. and EU showed they are one and the same," he said. “They have each other’s support and protection.” In a reminder of how divided the EU can be on Russia, Austrian Chancellor Kurz makes clear that Austria won’t be expelling Russian diplomats. Dutch PM Mark Rutte meanwhile speaks of ”strong solidarity in the room" on the spy poisoning. President Dalia Grybauskaite tells reporters that countries will take their own measures against Russia soon, after May briefed leaders last night. “I think discussion was very deep, quite interesting and it’s important we got more detailed information from Prime Minister May,” and it was very good information I mean trustworthy,” she said. *Leaders will start coming in from 8 a.m. and the meeting starts at 9 a.m.*The euro zone is also on the agenda *Final press conference is expected at 1 p.m. EU Blames Russia, Expulsions Now in Sight: EU Summit Update China Hits Back on Trump Tariffs as Europe Off the Hook for Now The Secret Plot to Reverse Brexit Is Coming Out Into the Open May Is Said to Tell Allies to Beware Russia, Expel Putin’s Spies U.K.’s May Committed Again to December Agreement, Varadkar Says — With assistance by Raine Tiessalo, Gregory Viscusi, Ian Wishart, Tim Ross, Viktoria Dendrinou, Jonathan Stearns, Arne Delfs, Ewa Krukowska, Katharina Rosskopf, and Nikos Chrysoloras