Oil rose as top crude-exporting countries suggest they may extend output curbs beyond this year, adding momentum to a monthly rebound. Futures in New York were headed for a 5.1 percent increase in March, erasing February losses fueled by mounting American stockpiles. Some OPEC producers and allies are considering prolonging efforts to drain a global supply glut up to the middle of next year, Iraqi Oil Minister Jabbar al-Luaibi said in Baghdad. “The potential for OPEC to extend their agreement instead of starting to cut it off at the end of the year is a positive development,” said Mark Watkins, who helps oversee $151 billion in assets at Park City, Utah-based U.S. Bank Wealth Management. “It shows OPEC is serious about continuing to have a stable price for oil.” Crude has rebounded more than 50 percent since June, with the rally regaining steam this month as geopolitical worries heat up. President Donald Trump’s appointment of John Bolton as national security adviser triggered speculation of renewed sanctions against Iran, OPEC’s third-largest producer. Meanwhile, the rapid increase in American crude production, which has topped 10 million barrels a day each week since early February, has placed a lid on prices that have remained below January’s three-year high of $66.66. For a story on how current prices make shale profitable, click here West Texas Intermediate for May delivery gained 46 cents to $64.84 a barrel at 10:50 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange, with prices set for a third-straight quarterly gain, the longest streak since 2011. Brent for May settlement, which expires Thursday, added 18 cents to $69.71 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The more-active June contract rose 22 cents to $68.98. The global benchmark traded at a $4.86 premium to WTI. The European bourse, along with Nymex, will be closed for the Good Friday holiday. At the same energy conference where Iraq’s Al-Luaibi spoke, OPEC Secretary-General Mohammad Barkindo said the group is looking for long-term cooperation with other global producers. BNP Paribas boosted its 2018 WTI and Brent forecasts amid OPEC’s efforts to balance markets and the geopolitical fallout from tensions between the U.S. and Iran. In the U.S., Energy Information Administration data this week proved mixed, with crude inventories and output rising, while gasoline supplies shrank. Other oil-market news: — With assistance by Tsuyoshi Inajima, Sharon Cho, and Alex Longley