Officials from the two Koreas are meeting Thursday on their heavily militarized border to discuss details of an upcoming summit between Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in. The talks at Panmunjom -- site of the armistice signing in 1953 -- could set the stage for a similar meeting between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump. We follow the developments here. Time stamps are Seoul: Moon’s office released a statement praising China’s participation in discussions to help stabilize the situation on the peninsula. "We expect the upcoming inter-Korean and U.S.-North Korea summits to provide a clear turning point for eternal denuclearization and a peace system on the Korean Peninsula," spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom said. Three-person delegations from both countries broke for lunch after morning talks at the Tongilgak building on the northern side of the border village. Cho Myoung-gyon, the head South Korean negotiator, greeted North Korean officials with: "Let’s do our best at today’s meeting in order to ensure that the planned inter-Korean summit goes well." South Korea’s three-member delegation arrived at the border village of Panmunjom to meet North Korean officials, according to a pool report provided by South’s Unification Ministry. It may be too early to say what Kim’s latest overture to China means for North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. But currency markets are prepared to give him the benefit of doubt, at least for now. Read more here. Setting a date for the Kim-Moon summit will probably be one of the results of Thursday’s meeting, according to Unification Minister Cho. The meetings are scheduled to start at 10 a.m. White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said Kim’s surprise visit to Beijing this week shows “things are moving in the right direction.” Sanders said Kim’s decision to leave North Korea for the first time was a “positive sign that the maximum pressure campaign is continuing to work.” Kim’s administration told party executives that a summit with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may take place as soon as early June, the Asahi newspaper reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. The yen weakened to a two-week low against the dollar after the report. — With assistance by Hooyeon Kim, and Kathleen Miller