Facebook Inc.’s grim week is getting grimmer. The company on Tuesday was besieged on two continents by governments suddenly focused on data security and investors unliked its stock to the point that it lost $60 billion in value. The Menlo Park, California, company, whose social network is a ubiquitous venue for social and political life, is drawing the unaccustomed unwelcome attention after the disclosure that it released the personal data of 50 million users to an analytics firm that helped elect President Donald Trump. The company, Cambridge Analytica, has been implicated in dirty tricks in elections around the globe. Facebook has struggled to respond to the fast-moving imbroglio, and even Facebook workers have been in the dark. The company held a staff meeting today to answer their questions and inform them of plans to combat the growing public outrage. For those not privy to that meeting, here are the latest developments: Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg may have to do a tour of European parliaments to appease lawmakers. Damian Collins, head of a U.K. parliament committee investigating the impact of social media on recent elections, invited Zuckerberg to answer for a “catastrophic failure of process.” Shortly thereafter an invitation followed from European Parliament President Antonio Tajani. Separately, EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova said she also plans to discuss the matter with Facebook during a visit in the U.S. this week while Italian telecommunications regulator AGCOM requested Facebook to provide information on data use. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is looking into whether Facebook broke the terms of a 2011 consent decree. The FTC is the lead agency for enforcing companies’ adherence to their own privacy policies and could fine the company if it finds Facebook violated the agreement. Facebook said it would conduct staff-level briefings of six congressional committees Tuesday and Wednesday. That includes House and Senate judiciary committees, as well as the commerce and intelligence panels of both chambers. Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that that it would "be helpful for Facebook to testify about how the company protects user privacy and what steps it’s taking to combat bad actors." Facebook’s stock price fell as much as 6.2 percent as of 2:26 p.m. in New York. The stock was down over 11 percent since Friday’s close and has given up $60 billion in market capitalization. That’s more than the total value of Tesla Inc. Free fall aside, Wall Street analysts remain upbeat. Buy recommendations continue to roll in and price targets reflect a potential return of 35 percent. Out of the 43 analysts who recommend buying Facebook shares, not one has downgraded the stock over the crisis. However, many acknowledge that bad publicity could keep the stock under pressure. Facebook users don’t have to look far for instructions on how to extricate themselves or their data: Across the Twitterverse and blogospheres, how-to instructions are making the rounds. PCMag is one of many tech sites that have put guides on how to deactivate, delete or control carefully curated social media accounts.