Italy’s populist parties both claimed the right to lead the next government after Sunday’s election as parliamentary gridlock promised weeks or months of negotiations and maybe even a repeat vote. The anti-establishment Five Star Movement was on track to be the biggest single party while a center-right coalition led by the anti-migrant League will be the largest group overall. Neither leader has a majority. Both claimed to have a mandate. Matteo Salvini on March 5. “The center-right is the coalition that won, it’s the coalition that can govern,” the League’s Matteo Salvini said Monday in a televised press conference from Milan. Less than two hours later, Luigi Di Maio said it’s Five Star that has the right to lead and Salvini doesn’t have the votes. After establishment parties managed to contain populists in German, French and Dutch elections over the past twelve months, their defenses were overwhelmed in Italy as voters rebelled against two decades of lackluster economic growth and a surge in immigration. The upshot is a far more unpredictable partner for European leaders such as Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron as they face the U.S. threat of a trade war while trying to reform the bloc. With about 98 percent of votes counted, the center-right coalition had 37.3 percent of votes for the lower house. Within the bloc, the League had 17.6 percent and Berlusconi’s Forza Italia 14.1 percent. The Five Star Movement was the most-voted party with 32.4 percent. Luigi Di Maio on March 5. In his news conference Monday, Salvini repeated his dire predictions for the euro common currency and thanked French nationalist Marine Le Pen for her support during the campaign. He said Le Pen would have been a great president for her country if she’d won last year’s election. “The common currency system is bound to come to an end,” Salvini, 44, said. “Not because Salvini wants that but because that’s what facts, good sense and the real economy say. So, we want to be prepared when the moment comes.” Di Maio, 31, by contrast presented himself as an serious figure ready to take on the burden of government. “We feel the responsibility to give this country a government,”’ he said. “We say this above all to investors: we feel this responsibility.” The governing Democratic Party got just 18.8 percent. PD leader Matteo Renzi is due to speak at about 5 p.m. in Rome while a spokesman denied reports he’s decided to resign. “We risk being left behind by European train with the grand coalition in Berlin, with the obvious political leadership of Emmanuel Macron” in France, Sandro Gozi, Italy’s current junior minister for European affairs, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Francine Lacqua. It’s up to President Sergio Mattarella to nominate a candidate for prime minister who he believes can win confidence votes in both houses. He isn’t due to begin formal consultations with party leaders until next month. — With assistance by John Follain, Chiara Albanese, Marco Bertacche, Kevin Costelloe, and Alessandro Speciale