Most of The Hydroponics Co.’s board was replaced amid allegations of poor corporate governance and failure to meet disclosure obligations. The Australian medical cannabis company’s chairman, Ian Mutton, and three other directors were ousted from the six-person board in votes Thursday supported by more than 68 percent of shareholders, according to a statement to the ASX. Director and former chairman Alan Beasley sought to remove the four directors in January. He later cited a lack of transparency and issues with governance as reasons, according to company filings. Its stock price climbed 8.3 percent as of 11:24 a.m. in Sydney after earlier rising as much as 14 percent, the most since Jan. 5. Beasley, who was removed as chairman in October, said Hydroponics didn’t disclose that the head of its subsidiary Canndeo was leaving in March, and didn’t provide the complete notice for its extraordinary general meeting, until it received pressure from Beasley’s lawyers. Mutton, in a statement to shareholders Feb. 8, said most of Beasley’s allegations in the notice were untrue. David Radford, who was appointed chief executive officer when Mutton became chairman in October, resigned on Wednesday after less than five months in the role. Debbie Ormsby, who Radford hired as chief operating officer in November, left the previous day. Steven Xu, who was elected to the board in January at Beasley’s urging, will act as interim chair until a replacement is appointed, the company said. Mutton said his leadership was consistent with the company’s goal to grow, manufacture and market medicinal cannabis products in Australia and Canada. But “shareholders have taken a decision that they wanted a change of board, or wanted to revert to a board as it was. I respect that decision,” he said by phone. The company’s shares have fallen 12 percent this year after rising 68 percent in 2017 following its May listing. Stocks have been surging in the nascent medicinal cannabis sector as Australia loosens regulations, seeking to create a cannabis-derived pharmaceutical industry. Once Hydroponics gets its “boardroom dramas resolved, I think the company has a very bright future,” said John Athanasiou, chief executive officer at Red Leaf Securities Pty.