Italy’s Luigi Di Maio, head of the populist Five Star Movement, pledged to abolish lawmakers’ privileges in an appeal to his own voters as he led a new round of talks with rival parties to pick parliamentary leaders after inconclusive general elections. The search for speakers of the lower house and the Senate -- a clue to any new alliances for forming the next government -- saw party chiefs negotiate through the weekend in an attempt to break a stalemate before lawmakers reconvene on Friday. Luigi Di Maio Di Maio, 31, himself a former deputy-speaker of the lower house, dragged his voters’ anger at the political elite into the talks. He wrote in a blog post that his priority would be to abolish lawmakers’ perks and privileges in both houses. He also branded as “unacceptable” any speaker candidates who had been convicted or faced trial. “The credibility and honor of our institutions is at stake,” he wrote. Di Maio said that he would insist in phone calls with leaders -- including Matteo Salvini of the euroskeptic League, the biggest party in a center-right coalition, and Maurizio Martina of the ruling Democratic Party -- that Five Star should get the job of speaker of the lower house given it is the biggest single party there. Negotiations for the speakers’ jobs are so far deadlocked with Five Star, the League and the Forza Italia party of ex-premier Silvio Berlusconi, relegated to the status of junior partner in the center-right, all pushing for one of the posts. The center-right led Five Star but both fell short of a parliamentary majority in the March 4 elections. The center-right and Five Star both claim the premiership, but they have yet to find allies to fill the shortfall in parliamentary seats. The scenario of a possible coalition between Five Star and the League worries investors and Italy’s European Union partners as it could jeopardize the country’s feeble growth and weigh on the euro area. Giancarlo Giorgetti, deputy-secretary of the League and a contender for the job of speaker of the lower house, told newspaper Corriere della Sera that it could form a majority with Five Star. “But the only meaning of a League-Five Star government would be to hold new elections, not to govern for five years which is what we want to do,” Giorgetti said. He called it “a last resort.” Salvini has said he’d only do a deal with Five Star if his center-right coalition allies backed it. Berlusconi however is seeking to win over the center-left Democratic Party, so far with no success. The PD, in disarray after Matteo Renzi resigned as leader following its worst-ever result, has chosen to go into the opposition. The party has left the door open to taking part should President Sergio Mattarella appeal for all parties to rule together, if the impasse persists. The PD’s Martina said Saturday that a government of Five Star and the League would be “dangerous for the country.” Salvini retorted when asked about Martina’s comments during a visit to southern Italy: “The Italians voted so there are no dangerous governments.”