The sell-off that sent global markets into a tailspin last week stretched into Monday, with stocks in Japan and Australia declining amid concern that global growth may be hurt by American protectionist policies. U.S. equity futures offered some hope of stabilization. Global stocks put in their worst week since the rout in early February and erased all of the subsequent recovery, with losses deepening into the close of Friday trading in the U.S. Crude oil added to its biggest weekly gain since July and the yen slipped back from the strongest in more than 16 months against the dollar. U.S. stock futures nudged higher in early trading. “There’s a lot of uncertainty right now,” Oliver Pursche, chief market strategist at Bruderman Asset Management, told Bloomberg TV. “Over the next week or two, investors should be prepared for more volatility but should also be looking out for some great companies that are going to be available to buy at very, very good prices.” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told Fox News that he’s “cautiously hopeful” the top two economic powers will reach a deal to avoid the tariffs U.S. President Donald Trump ordered on at least $50 billion of imports. Part of the problem for investors is assessing how the tariffs will be implemented, particularly after Trump exempted a handful of key partners from planned steel and aluminum tariffs. This is a modal window. Bruderman’s Oliver Pursche discusses the impact of escalating trade tensions on markets. While this week may remain volatile as investors tweak portfolios prior to the end of the first quarter in a shortened trading week for many markets due to the Easter holiday, some say the sell-off is overdone. Market conditions are looking favorable heading into the second quarter and asset allocations should remain oriented toward growth, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Here’s a list of what’s coming up this week: Terminal users can read more in our markets live blog. And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Nancy Moran