Asian stocks dropped and the yen gained as traders adopted a risk-off approach, mulling comments from President Donald Trump’s new economic adviser. Treasury yields extended declines after lackluster U.S. retail sales stoked concern that consumer spending is cooling, weighing on the dollar. Stocks fell from Tokyo to Sydney, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropping for a second day as U.S. futures slid. Earlier, the S&P 500 fell for a third day, with trading volume more than 10 percent below the 30-day average. Incoming White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow signaled Trump would support a strong dollar and take a tougher line on trade with China. The yen, seen as a haven asset, gained for a second day. Treasury yields tested early-February lows on bets the Federal Reserve won’t accelerate the pace of interest-rate hikes. “News that broke this morning regarding the replacement of ex-economic advisor Gary Cohn by Larry Kudlow interestingly has not been significantly well-received by the market,” said Jingyi Pan, market strategist at IG Asia Pte in Singapore. “One reason underpinning this lingering fear may be the new chief economic advisor’s stance on China which adds to the tension with Kudlow having targeted the country in his first public remark.” The lackluster retail sales data provided the last major economic indicator prior to the Fed’s policy decision next week. While an increase in borrowing costs at the meeting is pretty much a done deal, it remains an open question as to whether U.S. policy makers lift their expectations for the pace of future increases. Jeff Geller at JPMorgan Asset Management discusses the impact of the retail sales data. Elsewhere, oil steadied near $61 a barrel as signs of stronger U.S. fuel consumption balanced OPEC forecasting for the first time that new supplies from its rivals will exceed demand growth this year. Bitcoin drifted toward $8,000. Terminal users can read more in our markets blog. Here are some of the key things happening this week: And these are the main moves in markets: