The Trump administration is considering clamping down on Chinese investments in the U.S. and imposing tariffs on a broad range of its imports to punish Beijing for its alleged theft of intellectual property, according to people familiar with the matter. An announcement following an investigation by the U.S. Trade Representative’s office into China’s IP practices is expected in the coming weeks, potentially handing President Donald Trump further cause to impose trade restrictions. His announcement last week of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports has already ratcheted up global trade tensions -- and led to the resignation Tuesday of his chief economic adviser Gary Cohn, who opposes such measures. Read more on Gary Cohn’s resignation as Trump’s economic adviser Trump tweeted he’ll be making a decision on a replacement soon and that there are “many people wanting the job.” The dollar fell and the yen -- often a haven in turmoil -- jumped as much as 0.6 percent to 105.46 per dollar, approaching a 16-month high set last week. The president is now fighting trade offensives on multiple fronts, from targeting strategic rival China to angering allies like Canada and the European Union with threats to erect fresh barriers. While his counterparts have threatened retaliation, concrete action that would herald the start of an all-out trade war has yet to come. Read more about how the EU is readying measures against GOP heartland Under the most severe scenario being weighed, the U.S. could impose tariffs on a wide range of Chinese imports, from shoes and clothing to consumer electronics, according to two people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because the discussions aren’t public. The Trump administration could combine the tariffs with restrictions on Chinese investments in the U.S., which are reviewed for national-security risks by Treasury’s Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., the people said. The new measures being considered by the administration could go beyond even domestic security considerations. Click here for more on the economic cost of the U.S. imposing tariffs With the probe into China, known as a Section 301 action, U.S. officials are also considering a more targeted approach that would seek to rein in Chinese investments, the people said. The administration is looking at ways to enforce reciprocity with China on foreign investment, meaning the U.S. would only allow takeovers in sectors that U.S. companies can access in China, according to the people. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has urged closer vetting of foreign takeovers, and Republican lawmakers are pushing legislation aimed at curbing China’s influence. Trump reacts to wave of Chinese purchases in the U.S. Source: Data compiled by Bloomberg  U.S. officials are still examining various options, and USTR could decide to do nothing, the people said, adding that an announcement is expected next month. A White House spokesperson declined to comment on an ongoing process, adding that no final decisions have been made. Click Here for Gadfly: Tech Superiority Won’t Help the U.S. Win a Trade War Chinese officials, who have been studying curbs on U.S. products such as soybeans according to past reports, have been quiet on the tariff question Wednesday. The Ministry of Commerce didn’t immediately respond to a fax seeking comment on the 301 investigation. Mnuchin, speaking before a congressional panel on Tuesday, said the administration’s objective is to achieve a “fair and balanced” trading relationship with China. America’s trade gap in goods with the Asian nation surged 8 percent last year to a record $375 billion. Mnuchin said the U.S. isn’t trying to provoke a trade war with the steel and aluminum tariffs, an action that he backed. “The good news” is that Chinese President Xi Jinping and Trump have a “very good relationship and communicate regularly,” said Mnuchin. This is a modal window. "We’re not looking to get into trade wars," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says. Wide-ranging tariffs on goods made in China may provoke a backlash from U.S. retailers such as Walmart Inc. and Target Corp. The retail industry successfully pushed back last year against a proposal by Republican leaders in Congress to apply a border tax on imports. USTR has argued that Beijing uses a range of practices to force companies to transfer IP, and Chinese entities engage in widespread theft of U.S. trade secrets, as it seeks to become a leader in advanced manufacturing and artificial intelligence. U.S. businesses in China have long complained about being forced to hand over technology as the price of gaining access. U.S. companies have been urging the Trump administration to negotiate with Beijing before imposing any penalties, according to industry lobbyists. Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Yesui said this week that China will host talks on trade issues with U.S. officials. Last year, an independent commission on U.S. intellectual property estimated that the annual cost to the economy in counterfeit goods, pirated software, and theft of trade secrets from all sources exceeds $225 billion and could be as high as $600 billion. — With assistance by David McLaughlin, Brett Miller, and Miao Han