A deepening diplomatic spat with the West and a fresh round of penalties weren’t enough to deter investors from bidding for almost double the $4 billion of eurobonds on offer from Russia today. The deal is on track to price at around mid-afternoon London time and total demand is about $7.2 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because they’re not authorized to speak publicly. In a break from convention, local investors are being given priority in the sale in a Kremlin move to encourage wealthy Russians to repatriate capital. The bonds are being sold at the end of a busy week as both the U.K. and the U.S. announced fresh penalties in response to allegations of Kremlin involvement in election meddling and the poisoning of a former spy. While some international investors said they were put off by the geopolitical fractures, others said they were interested in buying the debt. “The sovereign isn’t sanctioned, so investors have to take the new issue very seriously,” said Richard Segal, a senior analyst in London with Manulife Asset Management, a $400 billion money manager. “Some may pass due to the geopolitical situation and therefore the yield may be higher than it would have been otherwise.” The yield guidance on $1.5 billion of new 11-year notes was narrowed to 4.625 percent from about 4.75 percent, according to the person familiar with the deal. That puts the yield about 20 basis points above similar-maturity debt. Russia is also selling $2.5 billion of an existing bond due in 2047 at 5.25 percent. The risks posed by Russia’s four-year standoff with the West were laid out prominently in the bond prospectus accompanying the sale. While no mention is made of the poison attack in the U.K., investors are warned that political and economic tensions have contributed to capital outflows and the depreciation of foreign exchange reserves. A recent ratings upgrade out of junk by S&P Global means that Russia is now included in investment-grade indexes, increasing the pool of investors who will automatically hold a portion of the new bond when it is sold. James Barrineau, the New York-based co-head of emerging-market debt at Schroders Plc. said he was skipping the sale because the bonds don’t offer much value and sanctions risk is still high. “We don’t find a lot of value here,” Barrineau said. “Russian dollar debt has fully priced in improving fundamentals and remains at risk of more sanctions noise.”