Asian equities declined as investors fretted about the impact of American tariffs on the global economy and the euro fluctuated as vote counting began in the Italian election. Stocks declined from Tokyo to Sydney, with the steepest slide in Hong Kong as U.S. equity futures dropped. The S&P 500 Index staged a late rally on Friday as investors speculated that President Donald Trump’s tough tariff talk won’t translate into the most severe protectionist policies. The euro traded between gains and losses as Italian exit polls pointed to a hung parliament. The yen edged higher. There is a "lot of politics this week with Italy elections and NPC in China, also trade measures,” Frank Benzimra, head of Asia equity strategy at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong, said. “The return of volatility we have seen since the end of January will probably remain." A combination of a more hawkish tone from the Federal Reserve and Trump’s proposed tariffs riled markets last week. As the initial panic over Trump’s trade talk eased, China said it will host U.S. officials for a new round of dialogue on trade issues. Long seen as a haven currency during times of turmoil, the yen is once again shaping up as a winner. Attention now turns to developments in politics in Europe and to jobs data due in the U.S. at the end of the week. Lowy Institute Senior Fellow Richard McGregor weighs in on President Trump’s steel and aluminum tariffs. Before the close of polling stations in Italy, the euro strengthened on news from Germany that the Social Democrats backed a government coalition with Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrat-led bloc. “The euro dollar has been in a $1.21 - $1.25 broad-based range over the past month, that range remains intact,” Tony Boyadjian, senior vice president for foreign exchange at Compass Global Markets in Sydney, told Bloomberg Television. “The polls indicate a hung parliament, it may take a little bit of time before we get this center-right coalition formed and until that time look for the euro to be bought on the dips.” Elsewhere, China kept its 2018 growth target of around 6.5 percent. The target was released Monday ahead of Premier Li Keqiang’s report to the National People’s Congress gathering in Beijing. The economy expanded 6.9 percent last year, though economists forecast a moderation to 6.5 percent this year. Terminal users can read more in our markets blog. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Abhishek Vishnoi