Stocks in Asia followed their U.S. counterparts higher on signs that an escalation of trade tensions was beginning to ease. The yen slipped and the South Korean won rallied as news emerged of a surprise visit to China by North Korea’s leader. Shares climbed in Japan, South Korea and Australia, while U.S. equity futures built on a Monday rally that saw the S&P 500 Index post its biggest one-day jump since August 2015. The yield on 10-year Treasuries maintained gains. The won was the best performer among Asian emerging-market currencies as Kim Jong Un was said to be making an unannounced visit to Beijing, his first known trip outside North Korea since taking power in 2011. The yen nudged lower as risk-on sentiment returned. The resurgence in risk appetite emerged as the Trump administration was said to be urging China to lower tariffs on cars and open its market to U.S. financial services as part of talks to resolve a rise in trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and his Chinese counterpart have been discussing the trade deficit between the two countries and were committed to finding a mutually agreeable way to reduce the gap and help China avoid tariffs on $50 billion of exports to the U.S. While global equities recovered losses sustained on Friday, the MSCI All Country World Index remains about 8 percent lower than its record high reached in January. “Our base case is that there won’t be an all out trade war,” Craig Macdonald, Aberdeen Standard Investments’ global head of fixed income, said in a phone interview. “It’s a way of applying pressure to get some wins by Trump.” Still, it will lead to more volatility, Macdonald added. “Our sense is that they will get some wins rather than all out war, but it’s not something you can just dismiss. The tail risk is higher.” Elsewhere, oil backed down from a two-month high as mounting political tensions and outright conflict in the Middle East, the world’s biggest crude-producing region, failed to disrupt supplies. Russian assets were hit on Monday as the U.S. and more than a dozen European nations announced a swathe of diplomatic expulsions in response to the poisoning of an ex-spy in the U.K. Here’s a list of of the main events coming up this week: Terminal users can read more in our markets live blog. And these are the main moves in markets: