Headwinds mounted for global stocks on Friday as President Donald Trump ratcheted up his “trade war” talk, compounding investor concerns over a more hawkish Federal Reserve and the potential end to monetary stimulus in Japan. U.S. equity futures extended declines and a gauge of volatility rose after Trump declared trade wars are “easy to win” in a tweet on Friday. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index headed for a fourth day of losses, with Germany’s DAX reaching the lowest since August as industrials slumped. Japan led the retreat in Asia earlier, with the Topix Index tumbling after Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda mentioned for the first time a possible time frame for discussing an exit from its extraordinary easing program. The yen surged to the strongest since 2016 and shares from Hong Kong to Australia declined. German bunds climbed, the dollar weakened and Treasuries fell. Trump was pushing back against a wave of criticism of his proposed steel tariffs, also saying “trade wars are good.” The tariffs raise the prospect of tit-for-tat curbs on American exports and higher prices for domestic users, further clouding the outlook for economic growth at a time when central banks around the globe are embarking on policy-tightening or approaching it. Kuroda’s comments were seen as further evidence the era of massive stimulus that boosted asset prices and slashed borrowing costs is coming to an end. Earlier this week, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell sparked speculation the central bank may quicken the pace of monetary tightening, a move investors worry could derail economic expansion. “We’re entering a period of turbulence,” Sebastien Page, head of asset allocation at T. Rowe Price, told Bloomberg TV from Baltimore. “So at the margin we are taking away from equities, adding both bonds and cash.” Elsewhere, oil declined amid concerns about increasing U.S. crude production, and gold rallied. The Cboe Volatility Index is up about 50 percent this week as traders anticipate more turmoil. Terminal users can read more in our markets blog. Here are some key events scheduled for the remainder of this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh