Asian stocks retreated following a drop in American equities after a fresh personnel shakeup in the Trump administration spurred concerns about a unilateral approach to trade, national security and foreign affairs. U.S. Treasuries held gains from Tuesday after a report showed U.S. inflation remained contained. Equity indexes in Japan, South Korea and Australia declined after the S&P 500 Index lost 0.6 percent. The sudden firing of U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson took some by surprise less than a week after top economic adviser Gary Cohn resigned from the White House. The dollar was little changed, while West Texas oil was holding above $60. “Markets one day may become exhausted if the staff turnover and perceived White House instability continues,” Terry Haines, a senior political strategist at Evercore ISI, wrote in a note. “Trump and the administration will have some work to do to reassure markets.” Tillerson’s ouster raised concerns of a new guard in the White House that may take a harder line on trade, advancing President Donald Trump’s agenda of imposing tariffs on U.S trading partners. Trump nominated CIA director Mike Pompeo, an ex-congressman who has endorsed "pushing back against the Chinese threat," to replace Tillerson. The change comes as the administration considers tariffs on a broad range of Chinese imports, with Politico reporting one proposal is to take measures against more than $30 billion of goods a year. Meantime, the U.S. inflation report Tuesday did little to rock traders’ bets on the path for Federal Reserve policy tightening, though the 10-year Treasury yield did slip to 2.84 percent as market gauges of inflation expectations fell on the data. Next up are Chinese economic indicators Wednesday. This is a modal window. Mike Gallagher of Roubini Global Economics discusses Fed policy and the impact of U.S. trade measures. Elsewhere, oil nudged higher, paring some of the declines triggered by concerns a boost in U.S. supplies will undermine OPEC efforts to clear a glut. Terminal users can read more in our markets blog. Here are some of the key things happening this week: And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Joanna Ossinger