President Donald Trump is adding lawyer Joseph diGenova to the legal team defending him in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian election meddling, after Trump has lashed out at it over the weekend. DiGenova has publicly attacked Mueller’s investigation and the FBI, saying he believes Trump was framed by Justice Department officials with a political vendetta. He also has advocated for Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversees Mueller’s work, to be removed and appointed as a judge. DiGenova will start later this week, said Trump lawyer Jay Sekulow. Criticism of the Russia investigation by diGenova, a former U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, is a break from Trump’s current lawyers who have largely refrained from publicly attacking Mueller and taken a posture of cooperation. But Trump has been growing increasingly frustrated with the investigation and made his first direct attacks on Mueller and his team over the weekend after another Trump lawyer, John Dowd, called for the investigation into possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russia to be shut down. Trump’s legal team determined that issues surrounding Mueller’s probe had reached the point where they needed additional help, particularly as negotiations continue for the president to be interviewed by Mueller, said a person familiar with the matter. The addition of DiGenova extends to his firm, diGenova & Toensing LLP, though it’s not immediately clear how many additional lawyers that would include. DiGenova has been a prominent critic of the Russia investigation, appearing frequently on Fox News and other conservative outlets. He has accused the Obama administration of initiating the probe in order to hurt Trump. “There was a brazen plot by senior officials by at DOJ and the FBI in the Obama administration and senior Obama administration intelligence officials to exonerate Hillary Clinton falsely and then to frame Donald Trump if Hillary lost the election,” he said on Fox News on March 6.