Australia has secured an exemption from metals tariffs announced last week by U.S. President Donald Trump, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull told the media. Trump confirmed the exemption in an early Saturday morning call between the two leaders, Turnbull said. He said the conversation also touched on the security alliance between the U.S. and Australia, as well as possible talks between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. “I was very pleased the president was able to confirm that he would not have to impose tariffs on Australian steel and aluminum,” Turnbull said. “It was a very good and productive discussion with the president.” Read more on the 11 nations that kept a Trans Pacific trade pact alive The Australian Industry Group said it was concerned that the exemption, while a positive step, might not cover Australian companies producing steel and aluminum in countries where the tariffs still applied. “Despite the exemption the threat of Australia sustaining collateral damage in a trade war remains real,” the industry group’s Chief Executive Officer Innes Willox said in a statement. Turnbull said he and Trump discussed the importance of a “fair and reciprocal” trade relationship between Australia and the U.S. “The U.S. has a big trade surplus with Australia,” Turnbull said. “We talked about the military and security relationship, how strong that is. Each of has no stronger ally.” On North Korea, Turnbull said he agreed with Trump that there must be no relenting on the economic pressure that brought North Korea to the negotiating table. Trump plans to meet with Kim within months after accepting an invitation from the North Korean leader. “We can welcome this cautiously, but I emphasize caution,” Turnbull said. “There have been many false dawns before, so the critical thing is to maintain that economic pressure.” Turnbull said that while he is looking forward to progress on the talks between Trump and Kim, “sanctions must remain in full force, rigorously enforced until such time the regime starts to denuclearize.”