Risk appetite showed signs of returning to markets as China’s President Xi Jinping struck a conciliatory tone, lifting stocks in Asia and U.S. equity index futures, while safe haven assets retreated. Shares from Sydney to Hong Kong rose alongside oil and metals and Treasuries extended losses with gold and the yen. Xi said Cold War and zero-sum mentalities were “out of place,” and backed free trade and dialogue to resolve disputes in his keynote speech Tuesday to the Boao Forum for Asia that had been highly anticipated by traders for any response to the barrage of U.S. tariff threats. “Xi’s speech sends a positive signal to the market since he backs globalization and the opening up of China’s market,” said Linus Yip, a strategist at First Shanghai Securities. “Investors were very worried about trade disputes, while his speech calms the nerves a lot. The concern about trade disputes in the near-term are still here however, since what Xi pictures is a very long-term picture.” Political risk also took another turn in the White House overnight, as Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian meddling in the U.S. election resurfaced. Despite gains in technology stocks driving U.S. equities higher on Monday, the S&P 500 Index erased about two-thirds of its advance amid news the FBI conducted a raid at the office of President Donald Trump’s longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen. This is a modal window. Principal Global Investors CEO Jim McCaughan discusses Chinese President Xi Jinping’s speech. Elsewhere, Russian assets remained in focus after the ruble plunged and the Moex Russia Index of stocks tumbled the most in four years following the U.S. sanctioning of some prominent Kremlin-connected billionaires and their companies. Aluminum extended Monday’s gain amid concerns that supply may be disrupted after the U.S. imposed restrictions. Terminal users can read our markets live blog here. Here’s what is coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Jeanny Yu, and Eric Lam