AMP Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Craig Meller stepped down, the first scalp claimed by Australia’s inquiry into misconduct in the financial industry, which this week heard the fund manager deliberately misled regulators over charging customers for services they didn’t receive. “I am personally devastated by the issues which have been raised publicly this week, particularly by the impact they have had on our customers, employees, planners and shareholders,” Meller said in a statement Friday. “This is not the AMP I know and these are not the actions our customers should expect from the company.” The move brought forward Meller’s planned departure and could presage a wider boardroom cleanout as the fallout from the inquiry spreads. The Sydney-based firm said it will undertake an “immediate, comprehensive” review of its regulatory reporting and governance processes, while a board committee will review issues related to the advice business raised in the inquiry. “There are wider questions here about AMP, it’s not just its reputation that’s tainted now,” said David Walker, a Sydney-based money manager at Clime Asset Management. This scandal “could impact their inflows which have already been struggling,” said Walker, whose fund doesn’t hold shares in AMP. AMP shares rebounded from the lowest in more than four years in Sydney trading on Friday, gaining as much as 2.6 percent. The stock had slumped more than 10 percent this week as the inquiry heard the company lied to the Australian Securities & Investments Commission about charging customers for services they didn’t receive, and presented the regulator with an “independent” report that included numerous changes by the chairman and executives. Among other steps announced today, AMP said: “AMP apologizes unreservedly for the misconduct and failures in regulatory disclosures in our advice business,” Chairman Catherine Brenner said in the statement. “The board is determined that we will meet these challenges head on, accelerating changes in both culture and performance.” Meantime, the government Friday announced tougher financial and criminal penalties for corporate misconduct, including 10-year jail sentences and fines of as much as A$210 million ($162 million). ASIC’s powers to investigate and prosecute wrongdoers will also be strengthened. Read more on the new penalties for corporate misconduct The revelations of misconduct heard by the inquiry are “very disturbing and indeed shocking,” Treasurer Scott Morrison told reporters in Melbourne. “The punishment must always fit the crime, and we must not forget these are not victimless crimes.” — With assistance by Jason Scott