Shire Plc has rejected a takeover offer of about $60 billion from Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., the Japanese drugmaker said. Takeda made a cash and stock offer of 46.50 pounds ($66.16) a share for Shire in a bid intended to give Japan’s biggest drugmaker a broader global reach. Takeda is aiming at Shire to gain new assets in gastrointestinal diseases and nervous-system ailments, and key treatments in the late stages of testing. “Discussions between the parties regarding a potential offer are ongoing,” Takeda said in a statement. “Takeda and its board reiterate that it will remain disciplined with respect to the terms of any such offer.” The offer is a 51 percent premium to Shire’s closing price on March 27, the day before Takeda confirmed its interest. Shares of Lexington, Massachusetts-based Shire surged as much as 12 percent in London, where they’re listed. “We think that Takeda’s recently expressed interest in Shire may flush out other potential bidders, most likely among the U.S. pharma heavyweights including Pfizer, Amgen and AbbVie,” analysts at United First Partners said in a note. Takeda’s offer, made on April 12, comes amid a flurry of transactions in the pharmaceutical sector, marked by GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s $13 billion agreement last month to buy out Novartis AG’s stake in the two companies’ consumer-health joint venture. Just this week, Merck KGaA agreed to sell its over-the-counter unit to Procter & Gamble Co. for $4.2 billion, Sanofi said it would sell its European generic-drug business to buyout firm Advent International Corp. and Shire agreed to sell its cancer unit to France’s Servier SAS for $2.4 billion. Takeda has been ramping up its takeover ambitions under Chief Executive Officer Christophe Weber, as the company seeks growth overseas amid patent expirations and a shrinking domestic population. Its largest purchase to date was a $13.7 billion takeover of Nycomed A/S in 2011. Last year, the company expanded its footprint in the U.S. oncology market with the $4.7 billion purchase of Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. Under U.K. takeover rules, Takeda faced an April 25 deadline to make a bid or walk away. With a market value of about $38 billion, the Japanese company is smaller than the target.