Thousands of Gazans gathered near the border with Israel in fresh protests Friday, a week after Israeli forces shot dead 16 Palestinians and wounded hundreds in the worst violence in the impoverished coastal strip since a 2014 war. Hamas, the militant group that rules Gaza, called on Palestinians to turn out in even larger numbers than a week ago. Organizers sought to thwart Israeli snipers by burning mounds of tires and using mirrors to reflect the sun’s rays into soldiers’ eyes. Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman said the army will react as it did last week, and with even greater force, to protect the border. Palestinian protesters in Gaza City, April 5 The protests aim to highlight the Palestinians’ plight as refugees ahead of key anniversaries on their calendar. Hamas leaders describe the campaign as a step toward reclaiming all of what is now Israel. The demonstrations have struck a chord with many Palestinians who see little to be optimistic about as Gaza’s economy continues to sink under the weight of war damage, sanctions imposed by the Palestinian government in the West Bank and an embargo enforced by Egypt and Israel. United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process Nickolay Mladenov urged both sides to show restraint. “Demonstrations and protests must be allowed to proceed in a peaceful manner,” he said. “Civilians, particularly children, must not be intentionally put in danger or targeted in any way.” The Israeli army said early Friday afternoon that hundreds of Palestinians were “rioting” in five spots along the border, and troops were responding with crowd-dispersal means. “Those who get close to the fence will be seen as a target,” Nitzan Nuriel, a former director of the Counter-Terrorism Bureau at the Israeli Prime Minister’s Office, said in a conference call Thursday. “We’re trying to send a message: You can demonstrate as much as you want but you can’t touch the fence.” Hamas organizers said they expected similar numbers to the 40,000 or so who turned out last week, but by early afternoon the crowds seemed significantly thinner. Three people had been injured so far Friday, according to Gaza’s Health Ministry. “Today we’re sending a message that our struggle is without arms and guns, and we will wait and see if the world receives the message and pressures Israel to stop its crimes against our people,” senior Hamas leader Mahmoud al-Zahar said Friday at a rally in Gaza City. “If the world fails to do so, then we’ll be obliged to use our arms.” Tha’er Hasouna, a 20-year-old student from Gaza, said he turned out to support Palestinians’ demand to return to homes they fled or were expelled from when Israel was created 70 years ago. Most Israelis consider the demand for a “right of return” as a call to eradicate the Jewish state. “I came here to join the marches and rallies to tell the world that we have legitimate rights and need to gain these rights back, mainly the ‘right of return,’” said Hasouna, adding that his family is originally from Jaffa, next to Tel Aviv. “I know that we can’t do it because we are not an army and can’t defy Israel. Therefore, we’re joining popular peaceful rallies hoping that our message will reach the world.” Why does Hamas want an uprising? Click here to learn more U.S. peace envoy Jason Greenblatt urged protesters to stay at least 500 meters from the fence. “We condemn leaders and protesters who call for violence or who send protestors -- including children -- to the fence, knowing that they may be injured or killed,” Greenblatt said in a statement released by the State Department. “Instead, we call for a renewed focus by all parties on finding solutions to the dire humanitarian challenges facing Gazans.” Palestinian leaders say Israel fired indiscriminately at peaceful protesters last Friday, and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas called for international protection for Gaza. The U.S. blocked a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for an inquiry into Israel’s actions. Israel says militants used demonstrators as cover as they fired at soldiers and tried to lay explosives near the border. All of the dead were were males between the ages of 18-30 -- including at least 10 known militants in Hamas and other violent groups -- indicating that Israel targeted active troublemakers rather than peaceful civilians, the army spokesman’s office said. Hamas on Thursday began offering $3,000 to relatives of those killed by Israeli fire and several hundred dollars to those injured. Palestinians view such “martyr” payments as welfare, while Israel says they’re an incentive to terrorism. Hamas has adopted the protests as a shift in strategy after its rocket threat was largely neutralized by Israel’s Iron Dome missile-defense system and its attack tunnels are being rendered obsolete by an underground barrier Israel is building along the border. Palestinians plan to cap their protests with a march to the border May 15 -- the date they mark the “Nakba,” or the catastrophe of their displacement at Israel’s creation -- which Israel fears will become a mass attempt to breach the fence. The protests come as a reconciliation deal between the two main Palestinian factions unravels and Hamas finds itself crippled financially by the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority. Palestinians accuse the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump of adopting Israel’s positions on the conflict, further fueling tensions. Abbas severed ties with the White House after Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel’s capital in December, and has pledged to reject the peace plan the U.S. is formulating.