Norristown, Pa. (AP) -- The Latest on Bill Cosby's sexual assault retrial (all times local): 3:25 p.m. A prosecutor says the jury that convicted Bill Cosby of sexual assault has delivered justice to the 80-year-old comedian's chief accuser. District Attorney Kevin Steele praised Andrea Constand as the "first courageous person" to go public with her allegations that Cosby drugged and molested her. Cosby was convicted Thursday. His lawyer promised to appeal. Some 60 women have come forward to accuse Cosby of sexual misconduct going back five decades. Five other accusers testified against him at the trial. Steele says Cosby was "a man who had evaded this moment for far too long." ___ 2:50 p.m. Bill Cosby's lawyer says the "fight is not over" after the 80-year-old comedian's conviction on sexual assault charges. Tom Mesereau spoke Thursday outside the suburban Philadelphia courthouse where a jury found that Cosby drugged and molested a woman at his home in 2004. Mesereau says Cosby will appeal his conviction on three counts of aggravated indecent assault. Each count carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. He'll be sentenced in 60 to 90 days. Cosby said nothing to reporters but acknowledged the crowd on the courthouse steps, then gave a thumbs-up as his car pulled away. ___ 2:35 p.m. A lawyer for some of Bill Cosby's accusers says "justice has been done" after the comedian's conviction on sexual assault charges. Gloria Allred represents three of the five additional accusers who testified that Cosby drugged and molested them. Cosby's lawyers painted the women as home-wreckers and liars who made up their allegations in a bid for money and fame. Allred spoke Thursday outside the suburban Philadelphia courthouse where Cosby was convicted. She says her clients are grateful to the jury for seeing past "his defense attorney's lies." Cosby accuser Janice Baker-Kinney, who alleges he drugged and raped her in 1982, says in a statement she's relieved "this toxic chain of silence has been broken" and says the women can move forward "with heads held high." ___ 2:10 p.m. Bill Cosby is lashing out at prosecutors after a jury convicted him of three counts of aggravated indecent assault. Cosby stood up and erupted after jurors left the courtroom. He used an expletive to refer to District Attorney Kevin Steele, who was arguing to revoke Cosby's bail. Cosby shouted, "I'm sick of him!" The judge ruled that Cosby will remain free pending sentencing. Cosby was convicted Thursday of drugging and molesting a woman 14 years ago. The 80-year-old entertainer stared straight ahead as the verdict was read. His chief accuser, Andrea Constand, remained stoic. Shrieks erupted in the courtroom and some of his other accusers whimpered and cried. Judge Steven O'Neill told the panel of seven men and five women that it was "an extraordinarily difficult case." He says the jurors "sacrificed in the service of justice." ___ 1:50 p.m. Bill Cosby has been convicted of drugging and molesting a woman in the first big celebrity trial of the #MeToo era. A jury outside Philadelphia convicted the "Cosby Show" star of three counts of aggravated indecent assault on Thursday. The guilty verdict came less than a year after another jury deadlocked on the charges. Cosby was charged with violating Temple University employee Andrea Constand at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. His lawyer called Constand a "con artist" who leveled false accusations against Cosby so she could sue him. Cosby could get up to 10 years in prison on each of the counts. Dozens of women have come forward in recent years to say he drugged and assaulted them. Five of the other accusers testified against him at the retrial. The Associated Press does not typically identify people who say they are victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission. Constand has done so. ___ 1:25 p.m. The jury is heading back to the courtroom and Bill Cosby's defense team is saying there's a verdict in his sexual assault retrial. The panel of seven men and five women have been deliberating about 14 hours. The 80-year-old comedian is accused of drugging and violating a woman at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. He's charged with three counts of aggravated indecent assault. A conviction could put him in prison for up to 10 years on each count. Prosecutors used Cosby's past admissions about drugs and sex as well as the testimony of five other women to help bolster accuser Andrea Constand's allegations. Cosby's lawyers argued Constand leveled false accusations against Cosby so she could sue him and extract a huge civil settlement. It's the only criminal case to arise from allegations from more than 60 women. The Associated Press does not typically identify people who say they are victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission. Constand has done so. ___ 10:50 a.m. The judge in Bill Cosby's sexual assault retrial says the six alternate jurors will get an hour with the courthouse comfort dog before being sent back to their hotel. Judge Steven O'Neill said Thursday he planned to meet with the alternates to "let them know they're still important." After O'Neill mentioned the dog, Cosby stood up at the defense table and made a comical, barking-like motion with his mouth. The alternate jurors are being kept away from the main panel of seven men and five women deliberating Cosby's fate. The jury spent an hour listening to a court stenographer read back the testimony of defense witness Marguerite Jackson before they resumed talks. Cosby is charged with drugging and molesting a woman in 2004. He says the woman consented. ___ 10:15 a.m. Jurors at Bill Cosby's sexual assault retrial are having the testimony of the star defense witness read back to them. The jury is back for Day 2 of deliberations. The panel of seven men and five women started its day Thursday by reviewing the testimony of Marguerite Jackson, who says Cosby's chief accuser spoke of framing a celebrity for the money. Jackson is an academic adviser at Temple University, where Constand worked as a women's basketball administrator. Jackson testified that Constand told her she could fabricate sexual assault allegations and "get that money" from a lawsuit. Jackson's testimony bolstered Cosby's efforts to show Constand made up the allegations against him to extort a big civil settlement. Cosby is accused of drugging and molesting Constand in 2004. He says it was consensual. The Associated Press doesn't typically identify people who say they're victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done. ___ 8:45 a.m. Bill Cosby has arrived at a suburban Philadelphia courthouse where jurors are deliberating in the comedian's sexual assault retrial. The 80-year-old Cosby arrived on Thursday and said "good morning" twice as he entered the courthouse. The jury of seven men and five women will start their second day of weighing charges by revisiting the testimony of a star defense witness who cast doubt on accuser Andrea Constand's credibility. Marguerite Jackson's testimony that Constand once spoke of framing a prominent person to score a big payday will be read back to the jury when court resumes. The jurors completed a marathon, 10-hour session on Wednesday that failed to produce a verdict. ___ 12:25 a.m. Jurors in Bill Cosby's sexual assault retrial are kicking off a second day of deliberations by revisiting the testimony of a star defense witness who cast doubt on accuser Andrea Constand's credibility. Marguerite Jackson's testimony that Constand once spoke of framing a prominent person to score a big payday will be read back to the jury when court resumes outside Philadelphia on Thursday. A marathon, 10-hour first day of deliberations failed to yield a verdict in the first big celebrity trial of the #MeToo era. The exhausted panel called it a night after rehearing excerpts from Cosby's old deposition testimony, including his admission he gave quaaludes to women he wanted to have sex with in the 1970s. The Associated Press doesn't typically identify people who say they're victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.