Provident Financial Plc raised 331 million pounds ($469 million) in a sale of new shares, signaling confidence in Chief Executive Officer Malcolm Le May’s strategy to turn around the U.K.’s oldest subprime lender. The firm received offers for about 96 percent of the new shares, the Bradford-based firm said in a statement on Tuesday. Underwriters Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. gathered buyers for the 3.9 million remaining shares, the company said separately. The rights issue, announced in February, is part of Le May’s plan to restore profitability at the lender after a botched attempt to modernize its business practices unraveled last summer. The company will use the funds to shore up its balance sheet and pay a 172 million-pound settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority’s investigation of its Vanquis Bank unit, while a separate probe of its auto-loans arm could take two years to conclude. The company declined 3.9 percent to 660.2 pence at 4:03 p.m. in London trading. “The company is now able to move forward with more confidence after the rights issue,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital Group, who has an hold recommendation on the shares. “Performance of the home credit business is improving but it will still take some time for the business to fully recover,” he added. From Subprime Star to Losses, U.K.’s Provident Tries to Reboot The two biggest investors, Woodford Investment Management Ltd. and Invesco Ltd., signaled their support to the equity offering when it was announced. Both funds also have major stakes in competitor Non-Standard Finance Plc. The FCA is examining areas of concern in the home credit industry, one of Provident’s three main business lines, where agents go door to door to make loans to people with poor credit histories. This may pose a challenge for the company, analysts have said. Founded in northern England’s textile belt in the 1880s, Provident has long been a fixture in the country’s industrial heartland. It distributed small loans as vouchers called “Provy cheques” that borrowers could redeem for food, shoes, and other goods at local shops. Provident used thousands of self-employed agents to peddle "doorstep loans" to households that couldn’t get credit anywhere else.