A challenge for investors all over the world, corporate governance is becoming a particularly thorny hurdle for investors in China’s bond market as the amount of low or unrated borrowers swells. Take the case of China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. Dollar bonds of the junk-rated drinks maker slumped to record lows last week after the Beijing-based company disclosed that loans it gave to another firm with links to its chairman were in breach of stock exchange listing rules. It followed another incident in March, where notes of Tongchuangjiuding Investment Management Group Co., a financial firm, fell to an all-time low after it was investigated by China’s securities regulator for violating rules. Investors have been lulled by years of implicit support for troubled local companies, but now with Beijing pulling back and allowing defaults, that buffer isn’t there anymore. With China’s dollar bond market coming off a record year for sales, the uptick in lower-quality issuance could spell trouble ahead. Bonds issued by high-yield and unrated companies have climbed to 55 percent of total sales this year, the most since 2011. Proportion of junk and unrated issues grows among Chinese dollar bond sales Source: Bloomberg Note: % by number of issues “In the past 12 months, we saw many lowly rated issuers from China in the single B category with weak financial profiles tap the offshore bond market,” said Christopher Lee, managing director of corporate ratings at S&P Global Ratings in Hong Kong. “These names tend to have a mixed track record in financial management. We expect potentially more governance issues coming to the fore for them.” Investors were forgiving last year as liquidity was strong and the desire to chase yields was high, said Lee. Now, corporate governance issues “would be on everyone’s mind” in a weaker market, he said. Rising Treasury yields and higher short-term borrowing costs have led to softness in the market this year as investors expect heavy supply from Chinese issuers. Investors should look closely at the management, “because they are the ones driving the fundamentals of a company,” said Raymond Chia, head of credit research for Asia ex-Japan at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. Here is a list of recent corporate governance issues from Chinese bond sellers. China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. (Related-party loan) Tongchuangjiuding Investment Management Group (Related-party transactions) Reward Science and Technology Industry Group Co. (Lack of disclosure) Shandong Ruyi Technology Group Co. (Ownership discrepancy) Shandong Yuhuang Chemical Co. (Cross guarantee) The corporate governance issue has been a “live” one, but it gets neglected due to low default rates, said Jin-ha Kim, head of global fixed income for Mirae Asset Global Investments in Seoul. “I expect more frequent governance-related issues when the liquidity base shrinks,” Kim said.