Stocks in Europe drifted higher, U.S. futures advanced, and equities across Asia gained as dealmaking activity brought some excitement to the start of a busy week. The dollar climbed while the pound faced pressure as Prime Minister Theresa May lost a key ally. Media and real estate companies led advances in Europe as most national gauges rose, while raw material providers were among the biggest losers as commodities fell. Shares in the FTSE 100 Index climbed to the highest in almost three months, with retailer J Sainsbury Plc jumping the most on record as it plans to buy Walmart Inc.’s U.K. arm, Asda. The pound dropped after Amber Rudd quit as U.K. home secretary, and Housing Secretary Sajid Javid was named her replacement. Sainsbury's plans to buy a share in Walmart's Asda helped it outperforming other retailers Source: Bloomberg  Futures for the S&P 500, Dow Jones and Nasdaq all pointed to a higher opening amid plans for mobile telecommunication company T-Mobile US Inc. to acquire Sprint Corp. for $26.5 billion in stock. The Wall Street Journal also reported that Marathon Petroleum Corp. plans to buy rival oil refiner Andeavor for more than $20 billion to create the biggest U.S. fuel maker. From mergers and aquisitions and growth data to politics and earnings, there’s seemingly no end to the catalysts driving global asset prices in the past few days. Company results and economic numbers will continue to roll in this week, while monetary policy and benchmark yields will remain a major focus as the Federal Reserve meets for its next interest rate decision. This is a modal window. Trevor Greetham at Royal London Asset Management, discusses the outlook for markets. Elsewhere, oil and gold fell as the dollar strengthened. And equities in Seoul advanced with the won after North Korea pledged denuclearization on Friday ahead of the upcoming summit between Kim Jong Un and U.S. President Donald Trump. Terminal users can read more in our markets live blog. These are some key events to watch this week: And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Heejin Kim, and Andreea Papuc