Oil dropped after French President Emmanuel Macron proposed negotiating a new deal with Iran to contain its nuclear program in a bid to keep the U.S. on board. Futures, which had briefly climbed as President Donald Trump talked about Iran sanctions, fell more than 1 percent on news that French President Emmanuel Macron is proposing a new deal with the nation during a visit to Washington. While Iran talk continues, traders are awaiting the latest industry stockpile figures Tuesday afternoon. “A lot of people are just waiting for the stats to come out,” said Thomas Finlon, director of Energy Analytics Group LLC in Wellington, Florida. “Markets don’t move a lot of when you are waiting for that to occur.” Crude has rallied this month on geopolitical tensions, OPEC-led supply cuts and robust energy demand. Saudi Arabia’s claim to be solely interested in eliminating the supply overhang is questionable, according to a report by Ed Morse, head of commodities research at Citigroup Inc. “We’re really lacking anything to justify a strong move up or down right now. There really hasn’t been anything to break us out of these doldrums,” said Ashley Petersen, lead oil analyst at Stratas Advisors in New York. Investors are “waiting for something to give a little more direction. Inventories are going to be an obvious candidate.” West Texas Intermediate crude for June settlement slipped 56 cents to $68.08 a barrel at 1:20 p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude for June declined 38 cents to $74.33 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. This is a modal window. Namara Wealth Advisors CIO Gary Dugan discusses the price and production of oil, and Middle East geopolitical risks. In the U.S., nationwide stockpiles declined by an estimated 2.25 million barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg survey. Inventories at the nation’s biggest oil-storage hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, probably dropped by 150,000 barrels last week. Other oil-market news: — With assistance by Tsuyoshi Inajima, Sharon Cho, and Grant Smith