A delay of more than three hours in opening Nordic and Baltic equity and fixed-income markets prompted regulators to say they will start investigating Nasdaq Inc.’s preparedness for the unexpected. “There’s a back-up system and my understanding is that it’s being brought online, but that’s taking time,” Maria Rekola, market supervisor at the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority said by phone. “Why it’s taking so long we’ll investigate.” Nasdaq was forced to postpone opening of the markets after fire extinguishing systems turned on at its data center in Vasby, Sweden, affecting “vital equipment” and causing “severe connection issues,” a spokesman said. Traders finding themselves unable to buy or sell said it was lucky that markets weren’t more volatile across Europe. Key indexes ranged from being down about 0.1 percent in Germany to rising about 0.8 percent in the U.K. early Wednesday afternoon. “Thank God, it’s a quiet trading day in Europe,” said Ole Kjaer Jensen, head of equity trading at Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa, Denmark. “It would have been critical if volumes had been big and the impact would have been dramatically bigger for us had the market been in a steep decline.” The halt affected equity and fixed-income trading on bourses in Copenhagen, Helsinki, Reykjavik, Riga, Stockholm, Tallinn and Vilnius, as well as trading in Nordic index, equity and fixed-income derivatives, and commodities. Any trades that took place today will be canceled, according to Nasdaq. Fixed-income and commodities trading are now set to restart at 1:15 p.m. Central European Time. Oslo’s OBX, which isn’t part of Nasdaq, remained open throughout Wednesday. Mandatum Life, a unit of Sampo Oyj, which manages a portfolio of about 6.3 billion euros ($7.8 billion), including equities and fixed income assets, said the outage would cause no issues with its portfolios on a calm day, adding that the timing could have been worse. “It’s a nerve-wracking thought that there could be problems on the busy earnings days next week,” said Mika Heikkinen, equity portfolio manager at Mandatum in Helsinki. “Without knowing exactly what has happened and how bad the damage is, it still seems to take quite long to start-up the systems.” After the issues have been resolved, Nasdaq needs to be transparent about what happened to regain investors’ trust, Heikkinen said. Read more on the Nordic regulators’ response to Nasdaq’s outage Finland’s FSA said penalties may be considered if Nasdaq wasn’t adequately prepared for the events. But “if there was something that just couldn’t be anticipated, then we need to consider whether a penalty is appropriate or not,” Rekola said. “There can be Force Majeure issues.” Rikard Josefson, chief executive officer of Swedish stockbroker Avanza Bank Holding AB, called the outage “remarkable.” “The stop creates big problems both for private investors and professional players,” said Joakim Bornold, an economist and former equities specialist at Nordnet AB. “Right now, many are stuck in positions without being able to get out. It’s of course very serious that the whole Nordic market is down.” — With assistance by Peter Levring, and Veronica Ek