Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s shares tumbled the most in almost five years, further complicating Chief Executive Officer Christophe Weber’s ambitious undertaking to buy much bigger American rival Shire Plc in a $64 billion cash-and-stock deal. The drop came after the Japanese drugmaker sweetened its proposed bid for Shire to about 46 billion pounds ($64 billion) and as the companies sought more time to agree on a deal. Slightly more than half the offer is in new Takeda shares. The stock part of the new proposal amounts to 27.26 pounds, or 0.839 of a new Takeda share based on Monday’s close. With the slump on Wednesday, Takeda would need to offer more stock to maintain that valuation, potentially creating further dilution for its shareholders. The deal would boost Takeda’s earnings potential, give it a promising suite of new drugs, and transform it into a global pharmaceutical powerhouse. But Japanese investors worry about the hefty debt and the possibility Shire shareholders would sell their new Takeda stock. “The market is seeing this acquisition as negative,” said Mitsushige Akino, an executive officer with Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “It is too big. Takeda might not be able to handle it.” The Japanese company is offering the equivalent of 49 pounds a share, including 27.26 pounds in stock and 21.75 pounds in cash. That’s a 60 percent premium to Shire’s closing price on March 27, before Takeda disclosed its interest. Shire’s board said it would be willing to recommend the new proposal to its shareholders after resolving other terms and doing due diligence. Takeda, which has seen its market value slide to $33 billion since announcing its interest, is taking on a much bigger rival. Shire’s shares have soared 28 percent, giving the company a market capitalization of about $50 billion. A completed deal would be the biggest by a Japanese firm of an overseas target, and launch the two companies into the top ranks of global pharmaceutical giants. Takeda has been ramping up its takeover ambitions as Weber faces challenges in ensuring its future. With few late-stage experimental drugs in its own pipeline and a shrinking home market, Japan’s biggest drugmaker needs lucrative new therapies. “It’s not only about the cash portion or financing, it’s about business for the future,” said Credit Suisse Group analyst Fumiyoshi Sakai. “Once the companies agree, investors should see a good thing, they should have a rebound.” After plunging more than 9 percent in early trading, Takeda’s stock traded 6.2 percent lower at 1:56 p.m. in Tokyo. The stock has lost about 18 percent since Takeda first announced its interest in late March. The fall in the share price to about 4,500 yen is still a minor decline, said Akino, and for now he thinks Takeda shareholders will back the deal. But there’s a possibility Takeda investors could oppose the acquisition if the stock price fell much more and board members would have to listen to them, he said. “There will be a risk if it declined further, didn’t stop and there’s no rebound.” Shire and Takeda received approval from U.K. regulators to extend a deadline required under takeover rules to May 8, allowing the two companies to continue talks. Takeda last week raised its offer to 47 pounds a share and lifted the cash portion of the bid after three prior proposals were rejected. Read more: Takeda’s Bonds Tumble After Bid for Shire Raised to $64 Billion Takeda’s balance sheet may also take a hit if it borrows tens of billions of dollars to pay for the deal. Japanese banks that are planning to lend to Takeda for the transaction must carefully consider how they should hedge their own risks, according to S&P Global Ratings. The agency has said the acquisition could hurt Takeda’s credit score, while investors have begun to demand higher premiums for holding its debt. The banks could hedge risks by organizing a syndicate of banks, requiring collateral or making the terms of the loans very short, according to Ryoji Yoshizawa, an S&P analyst in Tokyo. Japan’s three biggest banks intend to offer about 1 trillion yen each in bridge loans to Takeda, the Nikkei reported. Although Shire’s board’s willingness to recommend the offer makes the acquisition more realistic, there are still challenges including the possibility of competing bidders, winning shareholder support and a long integration process, UBS analyst Atsushi Seki wrote in a note. “We expect near-term downside for Takeda’s share price, due to concerns over uncertainty related to the acquisition for domestic investors and potential flowback,” he said.