Asian stocks fluctuated amid a lack of fresh impetus after an apparent easing of trade tensions between the U.S. and China triggered a buoyant session Tuesday for global equities and a renewed vigor in favor of risk appetite. With little in the way of new catalysts, indexes across the region struggled for direction. Shares in China and Hong Kong had the biggest gains as People’s Bank of China Governor Yi Gang offered more details on pledges to open the economy, which may help ease the trade tensions. U.S. stock futures slipped after the S&P 500 closed higher. WTI crude held above $65 a barrel, and Brent futures reached their highest level in more than three years. The dollar steadied after losses and Treasuries were little changed ahead of U.S. inflation data Wednesday. “The market is very, very fickle,” said Stephen Innes, head of trading for Asia Pacific at Oanda Corp. in Singapore. There are “so many potential risk aversion embers waiting to ignite, it’s scary: Mueller, Syria, Iran for starters, but we still have no idea how this Kim-Trump affair will play out. It’s incredibly tough to hold a view in this market, and I think this is why we see constant gyrations on risk dynamics on a daily basis.” Investor focus has returned to the U.S. economy and the outlook for consumer prices. Later this week the U.S. earnings season gets underway with bank heavyweights from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Citigroup Inc. reporting first-quarter profits. Volatility is retreating in equity and bond markets after a shaky start to the year that’s tested assumptions of synchronized global economic growth. On the geopolitical front, attention remains on Syria. Heavy flights of coalition aircraft were witnessed near the border with Iraq, according to al Jazeera. Meanwhile, U.S. President Donald Trump intensified preparations for a U.S. response to a suspected chemical weapons attack in the country, canceling a planned trip this weekend to South America. This is a modal window. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook Inc. chief executive officer, testifies. On the economy front, China’s factory inflation slowed for a fifth month while the consumer price index retreated from a four-year high. Elsewhere, Facebook Inc. shares rose as chief Mark Zuckerberg testified on Capitol Hill. Terminal users can read our markets live blog here. Here’s what is coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Brian Chappatta, and En Han Choong