Oil held above $68 a barrel as America’s potential exit from the Iran nuclear deal increased concern over Middle East supplies, overshadowing expanding U.S. crude output and stockpiles. Futures were little changed in New York after climbing 0.5 percent Wednesday. French President Emmanuel Macron predicted U.S. President Donald Trump will pull out of the Iran accord. A revival of sanctions on the Persian Gulf state is expected to cut oil exports from the third-largest OPEC producer. Meanwhile, investors largely shrugged off a government report showing record high American crude production and a surprise build in nationwide inventories. Crude rallied to a three-year high this month as geopolitical tensions in the energy-rich Middle East persist, with Trump set to decide whether to extend the Islamic Republic’s sanctions relief on May 12. While the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is succeeding in curtailing a global glut, the specter of surging U.S. output, which has topped 10 million barrels a day every week since early February, continues to offset the group’s effort to balance the market. “Uncertainties about how the nuclear deal will unfold leading up to the May 12 deadline are supporting oil prices,” Ahn Yea Ha, a commodities analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co., said by phone from Seoul. “Despite the unexpected increase in American crude inventories, investors seem to be more concerned about the U.S. decision on the Iran accord.” West Texas Intermediate crude for June delivery traded at $68.35 on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 2:40 p.m. in Seoul. The contract climbed 35 cents to $68.05 on Wednesday. Total volume traded was about 25 percent below the 100-day average. Brent crude for June delivery rose 44 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $74.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Prices on Wednesday added 0.2 percent to $74. The global benchmark crude traded at a $6.07 premium to June WTI. Futures for September delivery added 1.4 percent to 444.1 yuan a barrel on the Shanghai International Energy Exchange. The contract retreated 2.1 percent Wednesday, the biggest decline since April 3. See also: Oil Futures Signal a Flood of U.S. Exports Is Coming This Summer A U.S. withdrawal, which isn’t backed by any of the other five countries that are part of the agreement, would lead to a period of increased tensions and uncertainty, Macron said. His comments came a day after he proposed a new agreement which would try to address many of Trump’s concerns about the accord. Iran currently pumps about 1 million barrels a day more after the 2015 deal lifted sanctions that had limited its crude exports. In the U.S., the Energy Information Administration reported crude stockpiles rose 2.17 million barrels last week, in contrast to a forecast for a 2.2 million-barrel decline. The nation’s oil production expanded for nine consecutive weeks to 10.6 million barrels a day, the highest level in the EIA’s weekly data compiled since 1983. Oil-market news — With assistance by Tsuyoshi Inajima