President Donald Trump has reached a decision on steel and aluminum tariffs and will make an announcement before temporary exemptions expire at midnight, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said. Mnuchin, speaking with Bloomberg Television on the sidelines of a conference in Los Angeles on Monday, said he had discussed the verdict by teleconference with the president and his economy team. The secretary declined to describe Trump’s decision. Relief will likely be extended to many countries, according to a person familiar with the matter. The person wouldn’t name any of the nations and asked not to be identified ahead of the announcement. Trump last month imposed 25 percent tariffs on steel imports and 10 percent on aluminum. But he gave temporary reprieves to Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, EU countries, Mexico and South Korea, and directed U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to negotiate with countries seeking exemptions. The U.S. imposed the tariffs after concluding foreign shipments imperil its security. Without action, the temporary reprieve will expire at 12:01 a.m. in New York on May 1 for the European Union and as many as six other nations. So far, South Korea is the only nation the White House has said will be spared from the duties after agreeing to cut its steel exports to the U.S. Trump’s embrace of tariffs this year has roiled financial markets and sparked fears of a trade war that could undermine the broadest global upswing in years. The EU has threatened to retaliate with duties on iconic American goods such as Harley-Davidson motorcycles and Kentucky bourbon. The steel decision comes days before Mnuchin and other senior members of Trump’s cabinet travel to China in search of a deal to head off a trade dispute between the world’s two largest economies. The group traveling for talks starting Thursday includes Lighthizer, Ross, White House trade adviser Peter Navarro, economic adviser Larry Kudlow and Everett Eissenstat, deputy assistant to the president for international economic affairs. Trump has threatened to slap tariffs on as much as $150 billion in Chinese imports, while Beijing has vowed to respond with duties on everything from American soybeans to airplanes. “We’re looking to have a very frank discussion on trade, on the issues of the trade imbalance,” Mnuchin said in the interview. “President Trump has been very clear for the last year that he’s very focused on the trade deficit, and we’re looking to correct that.” The U.S. had a $337 billion trade deficit in goods and services with China last year. Trump has asked China to cut the gap by $100 billion and open up the Asian nation’s markets to American products such as cars. But Chinese officials will refuse to discuss the $100-billion demand at talks in Beijing this week, the New York Times reported, citing unidentified people. In exchange for a permanent exemption from the metals tariffs, the Trump administration is pushing countries to accept quotas on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to the U.S. South Korea accepted a quota of 70 percent of the average of its steel exports to the U.S. between 2015 and 2017, which can enter tariff-free. The U.S. Aluminum Association last week sent a letter asking Trump to grant exemptions to all “responsible” trade partners. But over the weekend, Century Aluminum Co. Chief Executive Officer Mike Bless, leading the second-largest U.S. aluminum producer, echoed the Commerce Department’s original recommendations to the president that said all imports must be subject to either quotas or tariffs. The steel threat has complicated talks with Canada and Mexico on a revised North American Free Trade Agreement. Trump has dangled a permanent exemption as incentive to reach a tentative deal. But both Mexico and Canada have resisted the idea of a quota. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Monday that he remains “confident” the Trump administration understands the pain that tariffs would create for workers on both sides of the border. “I have had many conversations with the president in which he has assured me that he understands the depth of connection and the intertwined nature of the great jobs for middle class Canadians and Americans,” Trudeau told reporters in Vancouver. Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said “a quota on steel would not be the best way to go.” The uncertainty over steel tariffs isn’t just causing unease among allies. The U.S. Commerce Department is wrestling with a flood of requests from companies to exclude products from the steel and aluminum duties, creating a backlog that’s sparked calls for action from lawmakers and trade groups. The Commerce Department says it’s already boosted staff, and wants approval from Congress to use more of its budgeted funds to help solve the problem. Some 3,500 exclusion requests have yet to be reviewed, while about 550 had been processed as of April 27, according to the department. No decision on a request can be made until it’s been reviewed and posted online for 30 days for any objections. — With assistance by Mark Niquette, Josh Wingrove, Joe Deaux, and Greg Quinn