Washington (AP) -- The Latest on former FBI Director James Comey's memos (all times local): 8:30 p.m. The Associated Press has obtained 15 pages of memos that former FBI Director James Comey drafted about his interactions with President Donald Trump. The Justice Department provided the documents to Congress on Thursday. The memos include details about several interactions in the first few months of the Trump administration. They include a January 2017 dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty, and a conversation the following month about former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn. Some of the episodes have been recounted in Comey's congressional testimony last year and in his new book, "A Higher Loyalty." __ 7:45 p.m. The Justice Department has sent Congress confidential memos written by former FBI Director James Comey. In a letter sent to three Republican House committee chairmen Thursday evening, Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd writes that the department is sending a classified version of the memos and an unclassified version. The department released Boyd's letter publicly, but not the memos. Boyd writes that the department "consulted the relevant parties" and concluded that releasing the memos would not adversely affect any ongoing investigations. Comey revealed last year that he had written the memos after conversations with President Donald Trump, who later fired him. Some lawmakers have been able to view the memos since last summer, but copies had not been provided to Congress. __ 5:30 p.m. The Justice Department has agreed to provide three House committees with copies of several memos written by former FBI Director James Comey, according to a person familiar with the agreement. The move comes as House Republicans have escalated criticism of the department, threatening to subpoena the documents and questioning Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and other officials. The person familiar with the agreement spoke to The Associated Press on Thursday on condition of anonymity because the documents had not yet been sent to Congress. Justice officials had allowed some lawmakers to view the memos but had never provided copies to the House committees.