Oil fell below $55 a barrel in London for the first time in over a year as a U.S. Federal Reserve interest-rate hike stoked demand fears just as markets contend with excess supply. Brent futures slid as much as 4.7 percent to the lowest since September 2017, mirroring declines in equities as traders worried the Fed’s policy will choke global growth. OPEC and its allies scrambled to boost confidence, laying out more details about how major exporters plan to slash 1.2 million barrels in daily production. Crude’s set for its worst quarterly drop in four years despite the accord earlier this month between OPEC, Russia and other allies. That’s been countered by fears about surging U.S. shale supplies -- inventories at a key U.S. storage hub rose to the highest level since January, according to data released Wednesday. Meanwhile, global investors remain concerned the Fed isn’t finished raising rates. Oil’s likely to fall further after the Fed’s “disastrous mistake," said Jay Hatfield, who manages $750 million in investments at Infrastructure Capital Management LLC in New York. “If the market’s crashing down, usually it’ll bring oil down too as people worry about growth." Brent for February settlement fell $2.60 to $54.64 a barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange at 11:30 a.m. in New York. The global benchmark crude traded at a $8.87 premium to West Texas Intermediate. For More: OPEC’s Sequel to Blockbuster Oil Deal Faces Struggle in 2019 WTI for February delivery was down $2.41 to $45.76 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The January contract expired on Wednesday. Stockpiles at Cushing rose for a fourth consecutive week, increasing by 1.09 million barrels last week, Energy Information Administration data showed Wednesday. While nationwide inventories shrank by 497,000 barrels, the drop was smaller than a 2.5 million-barrel decrease expected in a Bloomberg survey of traders. On Wednesday, Saudi Energy Minister Khalid Al-Falih said the current price dip isn’t based on supply and demand of oil, but stems in part from factors including geopolitics, U.S. interest rates, the strength of the American currency and investor speculation. Still, he added that OPEC will “need more time” for production curbs to balance the market. “When I look around the world there’s plenty of crude oil out there," said Andy Lipow, president of Houston consultant Lipow Oil Associates LLC. “There ‘s more than adequate supplies of gasoline and with the start of new refining capacity in Asia, the crude oil surplus could simply be turned into a refined product surplus that continues to pressure prices." In America, policy makers scaled back the number of rate increases they expect next year to two, from three in September, according to their median forecast. That’s still more than what investors expect. Powell repeatedly called the outlook for next year “positive,” though the central bank lowered the forecast for growth in 2019 to 2.3 percent from 2.5 percent in September. The S&P 500 Energy Index was down 1 percent, in line with the broader index’s slide. Helmerich & Payne was the biggest decliner, down 6.3 percent. — With assistance by Heesu Lee