Volatility gripped financial markets a day after the Federal Reserve sent shock waves across assets, with the rising threat of a government shutdown adding to a litany of concerns buffeting equities. The dollar sank with crude oil. Equities whipsawed throughout the day as investors debated whether the Fed set itself up for a policy error, before turning sharply lower after President Donald Trump hardened his demands in the showdown with Congress over funding the government. Stocks bounced off their lows in afternoon trading after William Dudley, the former president of the New York Fed, said the central bank would definitely pause rate hikes if the economy starts to weaken. Earlier the S&P 500 tumbled to a 16-month low and the Nasdaq Composite index slumped to the brink of a bear market. The large-cap measure is down more than 10 percent in December, on track for its worst month of the record bull run. Among the major stock moves: “The real issue is the three things markets have been focused on are coming to a head at one time: an aggressive Fed raising rates, fears of a global growth slowdown, and the trade war with China,” Cliff Hodge, director of investments at Cornerstone Wealth, said in an interview. “Compounding that is the political headlines regarding the government shutdown. It’s all hitting us all at the same time and is causing a major shift in risk-off sentiment.” Currency traders took the Fed’s lowering of expectations for future hikes as a somewhat dovish turn. The weak greenback spurred a rally in developing-nation assets, sending an ETF that tracks the emerging equities to its best gain in a week. Treasury investors remained on edge after the Fed said quantitative easing was on “autopilot.” The front end of the yield curve rose, while longer-dated bonds saw rates holding steady near multimonth lows. Crude added to anxiety on financial markets, with the American benchmark sinking below $47 a barrel. And a renewed U.S. push against alleged intellectual property theft by Chinese nationals is contributing to uncertainty over the direction of the simmering trade conflict. The Stoxx Europe 600 recovered some losses but closed broadly lower, while Japanese shares slid into a bear market. The pound trimmed a gain after Britain’s central bank said it now sees inflation slowing to below the 2 percent target as soon as January. Benchmark 10-year Treasuries retreated after steep gains on Wednesday. The greenback slid against almost every major counterpart, helping the yen score its biggest gain since May 2017. In Japan, 10-year bond yields fell to within three basis points of zero percent. Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in a press conference Thursday that there was no problem if yields fell into negative territory, suggesting he has no plan to intensify the central bank’s tapering of asset purchases. Here are some events investors will focus on in the coming days: And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh, Andreea Papuc, and Todd White