Theresa May will introduce legislation to Parliament on Monday to cap prices charged to consumers by the U.K.’s biggest utilities, following through on a pledge the prime minister made in last year’s general election. The new “temporary” measure will require the energy regulator, Ofgem, to cap power and gas prices until 2020, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said in an emailed statement. The measure will protect 11 million households currently on the highest energy tariffs, as well as 5 million homes already protected by Ofgem. “Our energy price cap will cut bills for millions of families,” May said in the statement. “It’s often older people or those on low incomes who are stuck on rip-off energy tariffs, so today we are introducing legislation to force energy companies to change their ways.” May is trying to curb prices charged to consumers by the country’s so-called Big Six utilities: Centrica Plc, Electricite de France SA, SSE Plc, Innogy SE’s Npower unit, Iberdrola SA’s ScottishPower business and E.ON SE. The Competition and Markets Association has said customers overpay on their energy bills by 1.4 billion pounds ($2 billion) a year. Centrica, the parent of British Gas, said it agreed with the government that variable tariffs don’t work but disagreed with the proposals. “We just do not agree with introducing price controls into a competitive market which will reduce competition and choice, and therefore impact consumers,” Tim Cowen, director of media relations at Centrica, said in an emailed statement. “We would rather eliminate the problem altogether.  British Gas is therefore withdrawing its standard variable tariff for new customers by 31st March.” The government bill follows draft plans published by the Conservatives in October that have since been approved by the cross-party Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee. The opposition Labour Party also supports a price cap, and legislators from both parties want to fast-track the bill so that it can be in place for next winter. The cap will be a temporary measure effective until end-2020, after which Ofgem will decide whether it should be extended on an annual basis until its expiry in 2023. The government accepted a recommendation from the BEIS Committee that Ofgem should review the level of the cap every six months.