Italy’s ex-premier Matteo Renzi urged politicians to combat all forms of violence ahead of the March 4 elections, after street battles between far-left and far-right activists in the past few days. “I think it is very important for everyone -- not just for a single party --- to be here, to give a message against violence, against not just verbal violence but all types of violence,” Renzi said Saturday in an interview with Bloomberg Television at an anti-fascist and anti-racist rally in Rome. Matteo Renzi in Rome on Feb. 24. A series of attacks has cast a shadow over the campaign, with worrying echoes of the dark days of the 1970s and 80s when Italy was rocked by hundreds of killings, bombings and kidnappings by politically-motivated extremists. Polls before a blackout period was imposed on Feb. 17 suggested a center-right coalition led by ex-premier Silvio Berlusconi, which includes the anti-migrant League and the far-right Brothers of Italy party, is the only bloc with a chance of winning a parliamentary majority. But Italy faces uncertainty next month with no clear winner expected to emerge. In a show of center-left unity, Democratic Party figures including its leader, Renzi, and Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, as well as Pier Luigi Bersani, who broke away from the PD to set up the Democratic Progressive Movement, took part in the demonstration called by the National Association of Italian Partisans. Renzi said Gentiloni’s presence at the rally was “very important obviously,” along with “all the parties and with all the associations who fight against the spread of violence.” The event’s slogan was “Fascism Never Again, Racism Never Again.” During a march through the capital, demonstrators sang the partisan song “Bella Ciao” of anti-fascist resistance movements during World War Two when Italy was ruled by Benito Mussolini. In the past few days, the regional leader of a neo-fascist party was assaulted, a far-left activist stabbed, and a memorial to policemen murdered by Marxist radicals was daubed with a swastika and threatening graffiti. On Thursday, police clashed with far-left activists who were trying to disrupt an event by a far-right group in Turin in northern Italy. The Rome rally carried “a beautiful message,” Gentiloni told reporters. “Even on a day which is a bit rainy, the commitment of so many people from so many areas of Italy is reassuring,” he said. Gentiloni greeted Renzi with an embrace when they met behind the stage in the Piazza del Popolo. Renzi has made no secret of the fact that he hopes to become premier again, but Gentiloni has emerged as a more conciliatory figure who could head a possible grand coalition if the election results in a hung parliament.