Asian stocks were set to follow the slide in U.S. shares as investors bet that U.S. interest rates would climb more quickly following Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell’s comments that riled markets, sending Treasury yields and the dollar higher. Futures on equity indexes in Japan and Hong Kong dropped, and Australian equities opened weaker after the S&P 500 Index slipped 1.3 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields climbed back up to 2.90 percent. China’s manufacturing PMI data for February will be a closely watched piece of data due out Wednesday, as investors move on from Powell’s perceived hawkishness. “This tells a story of a market strongly debating four hikes,” said Chris Weston, chief market strategist at IG Ltd. Powell said he expects the next two years to be strong for the economy and that his personal outlook for growth has firmed since December. Bond yields have soared in recent months amid speculation that U.S. monetary policy will be tightened at a faster pace than previously thought. For equity investors, that’s testing nerves -- global stocks are poised for their worst month in two years -- after years of loose global central bank policy helped push up valuations that look less appealing to some in an environment of higher rates. “We felt that the testimony provides insight into a Fed that may pivot to a more hawkish platform, particularly if it continues to see encouraging data points,” said Marvin Loh, senior global market strategist at BNY Mellon. “The markets, which had been mostly unchanged prior to Q&A session have since taken this hawkish tone to heart.” This is a modal window. Powell says the Fed can continue gradually raising interest rates as the outlook for growth remains strong. Elsewhere, crude oil dropped the most in more than two weeks as the International Energy Agency warned about seemingly unstoppable U.S. shale production. Terminal users can read more in our markets blog. Here are some key events scheduled for this week: These are the main moves in markets: