Indonesian President Joko Widodo won the backing of the nation’s biggest political party for a second five-year term in office. The Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle, led by former president Megawati Soekarnoputri, endorsed Widodo, also known as Jokowi, as its presidential candidate in the elections scheduled for April next year, according to Pramono Anung Wibowo, cabinet secretary and a member of the party. Joko Widodo Jokowi, the first president to come to power from outside the political elite in 2014, has already been endorsed by at least four other political parties, which are part of his government. The nominations for the 2019 presidential election must be submitted by Aug. 10 ahead of a campaign period that officially kick offs in September. The president’s popularity remains high -- a December survey by Jakarta-based Saiful Mujani Research and Consulting put his approval rating at 76 percent -- and after a tricky first few months he cemented his hold on parliament, where he has the support of parties holding more than two thirds of seats. “I’m worried that there’s no candidate, who can  mount a real challenge for Jokowi,” said Emrus Sihombing, who teaches political communication at Pelita Harapan University near Jakarta. “Prabowo is capable, but people’s acceptability also must be taken into account. Jokowi has the traits.” Prabowo Subianto, a former army general and chairman of opposition Gerindra party is widely tipped to take on Jokowi in a rerun of the 2014 contest. But Jokowi’s focus on development and infrastructure may give him an advantage, Sihombing said. Jokowi has presided over an economy that regained an investment grade sovereign debt rating and has focused on improving infrastructure in the world’s largest archipelago, but has also faced difficulties in parliament and criticism from hardline Islamic groups. PDI-P may get the most votes in 2019 election if there are no major corruption scandals or economic crisis in the run-up to the polls and Jokowi may be reelected more convincingly than in 2014, according to Saiful Mujani Research.