Sign up to receive the Brexit Bulletin in your inbox, and follow @Brexit on Twitter. Theresa May is shutting her key cabinet ministers away on Thursday to try to force them to finally agree on the kind of Brexit they want. Don’t expect white smoke, some of her team warn privately. The U.K. prime minister has invited her 11 most powerful colleagues to join her at her Chequers country house, where, Brexit Secretary David Davis joked this week, they’d be locked up until they reach a decision. With just a year to go until the divorce, the Cabinet is still divided on how deep the split with Europe should be. May is preparing to deliver a speech next week that will set out her aims for the economic ties with the bloc after Brexit. The away day is a “significant part of that process,” according to her spokesman. But Tim Ross reports that some in May’s team aren’t sure a deal will be reached. One official said the meeting will be just another one of the series of discussions the cabinet has had on the subject. Another said ministers could agree to blur the details on the U.K.’s future relationship with the EU to preserve cabinet unity ahead of May’s speech. The backdrop could hardly be worse: 62 hardline pro-Brexit lawmakers wrote to the prime minister late last week setting out their vision of the divorce, with a veiled threat that their support depends on May agreeing with them. The number is more than the 48 needed to spark a leadership challenge. One of their complaints is the way the two-year transition period that aims to smooth the exit process is being structured – the euroskeptics want a cleaner break. They were outraged Wednesday when the government released its official position on the transition arrangement and it showed the U.K. wants the length of the grace period to be flexible. Euroskeptics see in that a path to reversing Brexit, or leaving the country in a perpetual interim where EU rules continue to apply. The government wants the transition to be as long as is needed, a move likely to please business. Jacob Rees-Mogg, the leader of Conservative Brexit hardliners outside government, called it a “perversion of democracy.” In recent weeks, May’s vision for Brexit has been slowly emerging, and it has alarmed some of the most enthusiastic supporters of splitting. She wants the country to remain closely aligned with EU rules in several areas – very close in one or two – and break free in others. Regulations on car manufacturing and sharing data are two where she wants the split to be barely noticeable, and she appears to have support on this from key Brexit-backing ministers such as Davis and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. But without a majority in Parliament, and with her own leadership in question, it would be a courageous move to call the bluff of the noisy pro-Brexit rebels. Imaginative and Open | The EU will be “imaginative and open” when it comes to negotiating its relationship with the U.K. after Brexit, even though the bloc won’t compromise on fundamental principles, Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said. That chimes with comments from German Chancellor Angela Merkel last week, who allowed that wanting a custom trade deal doesn’t necessarily amount to cherry-picking. Corbyn’s Brexit | Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn will set out his vision on Monday of the Brexit a Labour government would seek, the Times reports. Senior insiders have been sworn to secrecy about the contents of the speech, the paper says. On Tuesday, Corbyn struck a new tone on the customs union, saying the U.K. “must” stay in one after the split. Labour’s stance, ambiguous so far, is important: Labour votes plus those of pro-EU Tories could be enough to force a shift in policy. Bank Exodus | Deutsche Bank AG on Wednesday became the first large bank to publicly announce the beginning of a wholesale relocation of client business out of the U.K. in response to Brexit. The Frankfurt-based lender said in a statement that it plans to complete the shift this year unless negotiators in Brussels agree on a transition period that will give banks more time: “We believe it is prudent to begin this process now, given less than 14 months remain until the U.K. is scheduled to leave the European Union.” But Another Commits | Bank of America Corp. extended the lease on its London headquarters by 10 years to 2032, the latest to re-commit to London property since the referendum. Banks including Wells Fargo & Co. and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. have bought or leased London buildings since the vote, Jack Sidders reports. On the Farm | Major U.K farm businesses are holding back investments as uncertainty over the terms of Brexit makes it harder to recruit workers, according to National Farmers Union President Meurig Raymond. “Whether you are in food processing, horticulture or farming, there is nervousness around recruitment of people and a lot of very big businesses are not investing what they ought to. That is the big issue,” he said.  Brexit Boosts Wages | U.K. pay is picking up after employment among eastern Europeans fell for the first time since 2009. Average weekly earnings rose 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the most since December 2016. Foreign nationals are no longer the job-creating force they once were, suggesting Brexit is taking a toll. Losing Unilever | May is braced for Unilever to choose the Netherlands over the U.K. for its new sole headquarters when it abandons its dual structure, the Financial Times reports. With Brexit raising the stakes, ministers have been trying to make sure the decision won’t hurt the U.K. economy and that Britain can at least win research jobs in the shakeup. On the Markets | Investors are betting the Bank of England will raise interest rates again as soon as May, and the increase in wages strengthens their argument. BOE Chief Economist Andy Haldane said on Wednesday the long-awaited pickup in wages “is starting to take root,” bolstering the pound. Big sporting events such as rugby World Cups are less likely to be held in Britain after Brexit, the Guardian reports. An increase in visa costs for athletes and a smaller supply of labor to staff stadiums risks pushing up the costs of such events, a House of Lords committee was told. “At Twickenham the number of non-U.K. EU workers is about 25 percent of our match-day staff and I imagine that would be similar at Lord’s and Wembley. After Brexit, we envisage the wages of those able to be employed will go up because of the lack of availability,” Angus Bujalski, the legal and governance director for the Rugby Football Union, told a House of Lords committee. “That will mean we’re not able to deliver the same returns to international federations, they will be harder to persuade.” For more on Brexit follow Bloomberg on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram