Stocks in Europe struggled for traction despite a positive Asia session as investors continue to debate the outlook for global central bank policies. Bonds in the euro region’s core gained with Treasuries, while the dollar steadied after Thursday’s drop. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index edged lower as declines in car and auto-parts makers helped offset gains for telecom companies. U.S. equity-index futures climbed. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose, underpinned by gains in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Sydney and Seoul. Yields on Treasury 10-year notes fell, though they remain near their highest since 2014. Those on German bunds dropped to the lowest since January. The common currency slipped. Bond investors took heart from an account of the European Central Bank’s most recent meeting, which showed policy makers aren’t yet ready to remove a pledge to expand its asset-buying program if needed. Over in the U.S., traders seem unconvinced by the Federal Reserve’s hawkish tilt, with the market still pricing in less than the three quarter-point rate hikes that officials have signaled as likely this year. Minutes of the Fed’s January meeting indicated confidence the economy is strengthening amid signs inflation is rising. This is a modal window. Peter Schaffrik of RBC Capital Markets discusses the likelihood of Treasuries reaching a 3 percent yield. Elsewhere, the pound edged lower after U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May won the backing of her divided cabinet for a trade deal with the European Union. Crude oil retreated, but remained on track for a second weekly increase as a surprise pullback in U.S. inventories compounded signs that a global glut is easing. In China, the government seized temporary control of high-profile conglomerate Anbang Insurance Group Co. Markets took the in news their stride, however, and the Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6 percent. Terminal users can read more in our markets blog. Here are some key events scheduled for the remainder of the week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Jeremy Herron, and Cormac Mullen