Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. Donald Trump’s speech today to influential conservatives caps a week in which the U.S. president has focused on preventing another school shooting — just not in a way many gun-control advocates support. Trump’s address to the Conservative Political Action Committee would likely have been warmly received even if it wasn’t occurring a day after he heaped praise on the National Rifle Association and doubled down on his backing of the powerful gun lobby’s proposal to arm teachers and other school personnel. NRA Chief Executive Officer Wayne LaPierre’s speech yesterday was met with hearty applause when he accused Democrats and “elites” of wanting to “eradicate all individual freedoms.'' It isn’t clear whether Trump will talk about gun violence, but — if he does — it will be worth watching whether he mentions strengthening the federal background check system or raising the minimum age for buying a semi-automatic weapon to 21 — ideas he embraced earlier this week that the NRA opposes. “Not surprised the NRA reeled President Trump back in,” Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said in a statement. “Just amazed at how fast it happened.” Economic cheerleader | Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin brushed aside signs investors are nervous about rising prices and criticism that growing debt will harm U.S. economic security in an exclusive interview with Saleha Mohsin. Mnuchin said the president’s policies won’t fuel inflation because there are “a lot of ways to have the economy grow.” Inflation concerns contributed to the recent stock-market rout. China’s political insurance | Beijing seized the Anbang Insurance Group and charged its founder with fundraising fraud and embezzlement, cementing the downfall of a dealmaker who bought the Waldorf Astoria and held talks to invest in the family company of Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. The move underscores how little protection wealth and power provide in President Xi Jinping’s China, especially when the investments of thousands of citizens — a potential source of unrest — hang in the balance. Court of public opinion | A nationally broadcast call-in radio show has become a venue for one of Trump’s lawyers to challenge Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian election interference and whether the Trump campaign was involved. In their official dealings, the president’s attorneys have adopted a posture of cooperation and deference toward Mueller. But Jay Sekulow’s on-air monologues are a window into what it might look like if they decide to take off the gloves. Downfall down under | Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s trying to turn his attention back to tax cuts and other policy plans after an extramarital affair forced his top deputy to quit. The travails of Barnaby Joyce, the leader of Turbull’s junior coalition partner, had dominated headlines for more than a month, driving down the government’s poll numbers. Nafta’s slow dance | Talks to revamp the Nafta trade accord are dragging, and Mexico’s ruling PRI is fine with it: A “win” for Trump couldn’t possibly be Mexico-positive, while a breakdown would upend the economy ahead of a presidential vote in July in which the government-backed candidate trails the front-runners. Stringing out talks improves PRI’s chances. Post-Brexit budget gap | The U.K.’s planned withdrawal from the EU next year will leave a 10 billion-euro ($12.3 billion) annual hole in the bloc’s spending program, the main topic when leaders meet today to map out a 2021-2027 budget. A Bloomberg survey reveals that at least three net contributors — Sweden, the Netherlands and Austria — say they won’t pay more to cover the gap. Bookmark this report on Russia, bribes, spies and EU banking for weekend reading, and this one on South African law enforcement agencies pouncing on prominent businessmen who are friends of former President Jacob Zuma and allegedly tried to loot billions of rand of taxpayer funds. For a look at the past seven days in Bloomberg photos, click here. And finally ... Sometimes foreign trips go badly. Then there’s Justin Trudeau’s trip to India. The Canadian leader arrived amid objections his party ignored Indian complaints over Sikh separatists in Canada to court votes. At the airport, he was met by a junior agriculture minister, which Indian media called a snub. His Bollywood-style wardrobe was soon being criticized as “a bit too much.” Trudeau also had to apologize after Canada’s High Commission extended a dinner invite to a man convicted of trying to assassinate a visiting Indian cabinet minister in 1986.  — With assistance by Iain Marlow