After one of the most expensive years for freak weather events on record, Swiss Re AG showed why it has piqued the interest of SoftBank Group Corp.’s billionaire founder Masayoshi Son. While net income was almost wiped out, the company on Friday outlined plans to raise its dividend and return an additional $1 billion to shareholders, saying it expects last year’s disasters to drive prices up. Despite record claims last year, competitors including Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, have managed to maintain or increase shareholder payouts. "The outlook for our industry is now more positive than it has been during the last four years," Swiss Re Chief Executive Officer Christian Mumenthaler said in the statement. "Changes in the market environment, such as adjusting property and casualty price levels and increases in interest rates, are expected to be beneficial for our business." Swiss Re, the second-largest reinsurer, this month confirmed it’s in talks with SoftBank, the Japanese mobile-phone carrier that the CEO is reshaping into a technology investor. SoftBank wants to buy as much as a third of the reinsurer, people familiar with the matter have said, a move that could see Son follow business titans including Warren Buffett who have buttressed their conglomerates with healthy cash flows from reinsurance. Swiss Re’s board of directors is assessing the strategic and financial implications of a deal with SoftBank, the company said on Friday. The Zurich-based insurer has hoarded money in recent years when there were relatively few disaster claims, and completed a 1 billion franc share buyback earlier this month. Swiss Re climbed as much as 2.9 percent in Zurich trading and was up 2.8 percent at 97.74 francs as of 9:33 a.m. That made it the best performer in the benchmark Swiss Market Index. The stock has climbed 6.5 percent in the last 12 months. SoftBank, which has raised $93 billion of a planned $100 billion for its Vision Fund, the world’s biggest private equity pool, has taken stakes in businesses including ride-hailing, chipmaking, office-sharing, satellite-building, robot-making and even indoor kale-farming. Reinsurers have raised their expectations that high claims may put an end to years of falling prices. The combined ratio at Swiss Re’s property and casualty reinsurance unit, the largest division, increased to 111.5 percent, as the year’s weather events produced above average claims. A ratio above 100 percent means more money is paid out in claims than received from premiums. Global insured losses resulting from natural and man-made disasters in 2017 are expected to be around $136 billion, according to data collected by Swiss Re. That’s the third highest since it began collecting records in 1970. That was mostly due to the three hurricanes – Harvey, Irma and Maria – that hit the US and the Caribbean, and wildfires in California. Other highlights from Swiss Re’s full year results: