Amazon.com Inc. and Brexit claimed two more victims on the U.K.’s shopping streets. Toys “R" Us Inc.’s U.K. unit and electronics chain Maplin collapsed into the British equivalent of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, deepening a retail crisis prompted by the rise of online shopping and worsened by the pound’s plunge after the vote to leave the European Union. The latest insolvencies threaten 300 stores and nearly 5,500 workers. While the shops remain open for the time being, Toys “R” Us and Maplin join a growing list of retail failures that includes department-store chain BHS and clothier Austin Reed. Britain’s bricks-and-mortar merchants are getting hit by the country’s leadership in e-commerce, with 18 percent of retail sales taking place online, compared with 12 percent in the U.S. That has left incumbents like Toys “R” Us and Maplin exposed to new entrants with lower overheads and prices, while the Brexit-driven drop in the pound has inflated sourcing costs. “Maplin and Toys “R” Us going out of business is hardly surprising, given the shift to e-commerce for retail, but for electronics and toys in particular,” ManMohan Sodhi, professor of operations and supply chain management at Cass Business School, said by email. “Quite literally, they have been ‘Amazoned’ out of business.” A weak Christmas season thwarted a rescue plan at Toys "R" Us U.K., which was left unable to meet a 15 million-pound ($21 million) value-added-tax liability due this month. Maplin, which is owned by private equity firm Rutland Partners, unsuccessfully tried to raise new capital to mitigate the effects of the Brexit-weakened pound, jittery consumers and the withdrawal of credit insurance. Poor holiday-season sales also prompted profit warnings from department-store chain Debenhams Plc, carpet seller Carpetright Plc and childrenswear retailer Mothercare Plc. In another potential blow to the country’s downtowns and shopping malls, restaurant operator Prezzo plans to close as many as one-third of its 300 outlets, Sky reported. Maplin said it entered so-called administration proceedings after trying unsuccessfully to find a buyer. Stores will remain open for now and employees have been paid their February wages, administrator PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a statement. “The business has worked hard over recent months to mitigate a combination of impacts from sterling devaluation post-Brexit, a weak consumer environment and the withdrawal of credit insurance,” Maplin Chief Executive Officer Graham Harris said in a statement. “This necessitated an intensive search for new capital that in current market conditions has proved impossible to raise.” The collapse of Toys “R” Us’s U.K. business followed bankruptcy proceedings for its U.S. parent that began in September. Toys “R” Us Inc. buckled under debt that dated from a $7.5 billion leveraged buyout in 2005 led by Bain Capital, KKR & Co. and Vornado Realty Trust, amid increasing online competition. Simon Thomas and Arron Kendall, partners at Moorfields Advisory Ltd., have been appointed as joint administrators of the British division to oversee “an orderly wind-down of the store portfolio over the coming weeks,” the company said in an emailed statement.