European stocks pared gains and U.S. index futures turned lower as investors switched their focus to second-quarter results in the absence of new developments on the trade front. The pound fell as the Brexit quagmire deepened. Travel companies were the biggest winners in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index as most industry sectors advanced. Futures on the S&P 500, Dow Jones and Nasdaq fluctuated between gains and losses before earnings reports by some of America’s biggest banks, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. Stocks in Asia were set for a first weekly advance in five as benchmarks in Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea gained. The dollar strengthened and Treasuries edged higher, while the euro declined and the yuan fell. The pound slipped after President Donald Trump warned U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May that her Brexit proposal -- already facing an uphill battle for European Union approval -- could “kill” any future U.S. trade deal. This is a modal window. Simon Fraser of Flint Global discusses Donald Trump’s criticism of the U.K.’s Brexit plan. Investors will feel some relief as earnings season gets underway in earnest, allowing attention to pivot away from trade relations. The latter seemed to ease somewhat, with officials in Beijing appearing to moderate their responses to Trump’s tariff threats amid a slowing economy, falling stock market and weakening currency. Still, China’s monthly trade surplus with the U.S. rose to a record in June and exports to the nation also soared, underlining the cause of the escalating trade war. Despite optimism a bumper earnings season can propel equities higher, there remains disagreement as to sustainability of the economic cycle. Former U.S. Treasury official Jim Millstein says the next economic downturn could strike in less than two years, while Guggenheim Partners’ Scott Minerd says there is now a higher chance of a deep U.S. recession as soon as next year. Meanwhile, commodities fell as West Texas crude retreated below $70 a barrel and metals declined, with gold hitting a one-year low. Emerging-market shares extended gains to head for a first weekly advance in five. Terminal users can read more in Bloomberg’s Markets Live blog. These are some events to look out for the remainder of this week: And here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Cormac Mullen, Sarah Ponczek, Randall Jensen, and Adam Haigh