Opel, the German carmaker that posted almost two decades of losses under General Motors Co.’s ownership, is making money again. PSA Group, the French manufacturer of the Peugeot, Citroen and DS nameplates that acquired the brand a year ago, has been aggressively cutting costs and eliminating jobs. On Tuesday, PSA revealed Opel made 502 million euros ($587 million) of profit during the first six months of 2018 compared with a loss a year earlier. The shares surged as much as 13 percent, the most in six years. “This is simply the quickest turnaround I have seen in the auto industry in many years,” JP Morgan analyst Jose Asumendi wrote in a note. Since buying the ailing brand, PSA has overhauled Opel and British sister brand Vauxhall, slashing costs of developing new models by as much as 50 percent through sharing technology with the French parent. The effort also meant resolving a dispute with German labor representatives that will help to reduce spending and clear the way for PSA to allocate investments in the country where most of the brand’s workforce is based. The agreement will eliminate 3,700 jobs from Opel’s German workforce of about 20,000 employees. General Motors sold Opel last year. PSA got to work quickly using a strategy that largely mirrors its own successful restructuring since a 2014 bailout, which transformed the former industry laggard into one of Europe’s most profitable mass-market carmakers. Cutting unnecessary expenses and slashing vehicle complexity were key drivers behind the deep cutbacks under PSA Chief Executive Officer Carlos Tavares. Carlos Tavares “We’re seeing the first signs of this successful turnaround,” Tavares told Bloomberg TV’s Caroline Connan in an interview. “Each employee is contributing and I’m very happy to see the results with all of our stakeholders.” For more on PSA’s turnaround efforts, click here For the group, recurring operating profit jumped 48 percent in the first half of the year to 3.02 billion euros ($3.5 billion) as higher sales and popular models like the Peugeot 5008 sport utility vehicles helped offset higher raw materials costs and currency swings, the company said in a statement. That’s better than a forecast of three analysts complied by Bloomberg. The automotive recurring operating margin reached 8.5 percent in the period for the Peugeot, Citroen and DS nameplates, while it stood at 5 percent for the Opel. The carmaker reiterated it’s targeting an automotive margin of over 6 percent by 2021, excluding Opel. “Opel-Vauxhall has started to reveal its full potential for performance thanks to the strong involvement of its teams,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said Tuesday on a call with reporters. For the first time in years, the brands booked a profit “thanks to cost reduction and improving pricing power.” Just as it is bolstered by strong car demand in Europe, PSA is facing difficulties in other markets. It halted its operations in Iran -- its biggest market outside France -- in May to comply with U.S. sanctions, hoping for the French government to negotiate a waiver that U.S. authorities refused to grant. — With assistance by Caroline Connan