Asian stocks fell Tuesday after technology bellwethers led a retreat in U.S. stocks and more signs emerged of softening Chinese economic growth. The yen was flat as traders awaited the outcome of the Bank of Japan policy meeting. Equities fell in Japan, Hong Kong and China, while South Korean and Australian shares were little changed. Earlier, the Nasdaq Composite Index sank 1.4 percent with the FAANG cohort of tech megacaps tumbling almost 3 percent, led by Netflix Inc. The dollar steadied and Treasuries were little changed, while oil held above $70 a barrel. Concern that tech shares have become overvalued are hanging over the market as bellwether Apple Inc. prepares to report earnings Tuesday. Investors are also prepping for central bank policy decisions, with traders focused on whether the BOJ will fine tune its stimulus programs and look for any indications the Federal Reserve is shying away from two more interest-rate hikes before the end of this year. Meanwhile, the Bank of England is widely expected to increase borrowing costs. “I think the BOJ will be a little bit less of an event than is being forecast and despite all the rumor and innuendo, I suspect Kuroda and co. will sit on their hands,” Evan Lucas, chief market strategist at InvestSMART Group Ltd., said on Bloomberg Television. “The catch around that and probably the contrarian trade is that whatever they say, I think is going to see a reaction anyway.” For a guide in the lead-up to the BOJ decision, click here. Kerry Craig, JPMorgan Asset Management global market strategist, discusses his investment strategy. China’s manufacturing purchasing managers index -- the official factory gauge -- fell to 51.2 in July from 51.5 in June and lower than the forecast of 51.3 in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Factories are faced with challenges both at home and abroad, with slower credit growth this year denting demand and the imposition of the first round of U.S. tariffs. Terminal users can follow our Markets Live blog here. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sarah Ponczek