Stocks advanced globally on Thursday, rebounding in the wake of a bruising sell-off a day earlier. The prospect of more trade talks between the U.S. and China helped steady nerves, and the dollar edged lower with Treasuries as commodities recovered ground. U.S. futures joined the broad rally in equities, as travel and leisure companies led the Stoxx Europe 600 Index higher with media firms. In Asia, Chinese stocks outperformed as most major gauges rose, and the offshore yuan reversed an earlier loss. The dollar slipped amid the risk-on mood and following its biggest jump in almost a month a day earlier. West Texas oil jumped after plunging 5 percent Wednesday. While the possibility of more talks to diffuse the brewing trade war will be welcomed by investors, they’ll remain wary of the chances of a further escalation and the impact it could have on global growth. Washington and Beijing now have about seven weeks to strike a deal or dig in for a trade war that could upend corporate supply chains and raise prices for consumers. “Until you get resolution of the trade talks you’re going to see international markets underperform relative to the U.S.,” said Kevin Nicholson, chief market strategist at RiverFront Investment Group in Richmond, Virginia. The S&P 500 Index will probably trade between 2,600 and 2,800, with support from earnings growth and headwinds from trade tensions, he said. “Commodities are going to be a loser” in the trade war, and RiverFront has cut back its exposure, he said. Terminal users can read more in Bloomberg’s Markets Live blog. This is a modal window. Fidelity’s Medha Samant discusses the impact the trade war is having on markets. Elsewhere, Turkey’s lira recovered after hitting a record low when a local television channel said President Recep Tayyip Erdogan sees interest rates falling. The won fell, with little reaction to the Bank of Korea holding its benchmark rate at 1.5 percent. These are some events to look out for this week: And here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Cormac Mullen, Chris Anstey, Ramy Inocencio, Paul Allen, Helen Sun, Kana Nishizawa, Amanda Wang, and Matt Turner