U.S. stocks moved higher driven by biotechnology shares following reports that Biogen Inc.’s Alzheimers drug showed positive results in a large clinical trial. The dollar extended losses and Treasuries climbed as investors assessed a mixed jobs report and the impact of an escalating trade rift with China. The S&P 500 Index gained following the employment report, which showed U.S. hiring topped forecasts in June, while the Nasdaq benchmarks surged on strength in biotech. Wage gains slowed unexpectedly, sending the dollar lower and the yield on 10-year Treasuries down to 2.81 percent as traders assessed the implications on Federal Reserve policy. “In many respects, it’s the best of a lot of worlds.” David Ader, chief macro strategist at Informa Financial Intelligence, said of the jobs report. “You’re not seeing inflation in this number. This doesn’t change anything for the Fed, and that I think is very, very important. This is a modal window. U.S. payrolls in June rose by 213,000 beating estimates. Bloomberg’s Mike McKee reports. Stocks around the world had been under pressure after China said it’s retaliating to U.S. tariffs and President Donald Trump threatened to impose levies on even more Chinese goods. The escalating tit-for-tat is stoking market fears that the global economy could become destabilized amid a trade war that isn’t set to end anytime soon. “If there’s one thing we’ve learned over the past couple of years, it’s that politics hasn’t been rattling the markets,” said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial Network. “But it’s the next phase, when it shows up in things people buy on a day-to-day basis -- that’s when it starts to get nasty.” Follow our live blog as China says it is forced to retaliate on U.S. tariffs. The Bloomberg Commodity Index reversed a loss and moved higher. West Texas crude slipped below $73 a barrel before recovering, and copper traded at a one-year low after suffering its worst week since January 2015. Emerging-market shares edged toward the first gain this week. In Europe, stocks drifted higher, with defensive shares such as utilities among the gainers, underscoring the cautious mood. Deutsche Bank AG rose on speculation of takeover bids. The euro posted a modest rise after a jump in German industrial production, while crude oil fell along with most industrial metals. Terminal users can read more in Bloomberg’s Markets Live blog. Here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Sid Verma, Eddie van der Walt, and Katia Dmitrieva