Britain’s new head of Brexit talks said the country needs to prepare for the possibility of negotiations collapsing on a new trading arrangement with the European Union once the divorce is final. “Any responsible government must make sure we have planning in place in case of a no-deal outcome,” Dominic Raab, appointed Brexit secretary this month, told the “Andrew Marr Show” on BBC television. “We want the best deal possible.” Dominic Raab Britons needn’t worry about the prospect of no deal emerging, Raab said, when asked about how that might strand imports at borders, create the need to stockpile food, prevent airplanes from landing, or negate residency rights for Britons abroad or foreigners living in the U.K. While he expects to reach an accord, planning is underway in “every aspect” to make sure the country is prepared if he doesn’t, he said. The remarks follow an interview with the Sunday Telegraph in which Raab said that the U.K. would refuse to pay the 39-billion pound ($51 billion) divorce bill with the EU if the bloc fails to agree on a deal. Brexit is dividing the country and May’s Conservative Party, which is split between those who want a clean break with the EU and those who want to maintain closer ties. Dominic Grieve, a Conservative member of Parliament, said on Sky News that some members of his party are “actively seeking” to leave the bloc without a new trade arrangement. “No deal would be absolutely catastrophic,” Grieve said on the Sunday Politics show. “If the government thinks no deal is possible, it might take emergency measures, but let’s be realistic -- we will be in a state of emergency.” The tension is also affecting the opposition Labour Party. John McDonnell, Labour’s spokesman on the economy, equivocated on whether he would support a second Brexit referendum and argued that the main contribution a Labour government could make would be to “change the whole atmosphere of the negotiations.” Speaking on Sky News, he said he’d like to see a general election soon, though he expects the government to cling to office for a while yet. Read more: EU’s Barnier throws Brexit bone to battered Theresa May A poll published July 21 showed that the number of voters who oppose Prime Minister Theresa May’s draft plan for a future trading arrangement vastly exceeds those who support it, 43 percent to 12 percent. Voters are also prepared to back new political parties -- either a right-wing group supporting Brexit or a centrist force opposed to leaving the EU. Raab became Brexit secretary on July 9 after David Davis resigned the post in protest against May’s divorce blueprint. Raab said he’s going back to Brussels for more negotiations on Thursday. The U.K. shouldn’t make further concessions to the EU, according to Conservative politician Owen Paterson. He said on Sky that the current plan already prevents Britain from leaving in “a clean way” and that concerns about no deal are overblown. “We should be preparing for trade on World Trade Organization terms,” Paterson said. “I just don’t see how it could be such a disaster.” John Major, the former Conservative prime minister and elder statesman of the party, summed up the predicament. “There are a considerable number of Conservative MPs who are, on the subject of Europe, irreconcilable,” he said on the BBC. “The danger at the moment is that they will frustrate every move the government makes and that, by accident, we will crash out without a deal.”