Bonds across global developed markets declined ahead of the Bank of Japan’s policy decision Tuesday on growing speculation that the monetary authority may adjust the nation’s policy stimulus. U.K. gilts led the drop, with 10-year yields touching the highest level in nearly a month, while U.S. Treasuries and German bunds followed suit. Yields on similar-dated Japanese bonds rose to an almost 18-month high during Asian hours before the BOJ offered to buy an unlimited amount of securities for the third time in a week. Speculation that Governor Haruhiko Kuroda could permit yields to fluctuate more around the BOJ’s zero percent target or remove its current 80-trillion yen ($720 billion) bond-purchase target has rippled across global markets over the past week -- pushing yields higher and steepening yield curves. Any winding back of stimulus would strengthen the yen and undermine efforts to boost domestic inflation that is well below the central bank’s 2 percent target. “The main driver is the BOJ,” said Jens Peter Sorensen, chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S. “If the market expects the BOJ to slowly move toward an exit of its very expansive monetary policy, FX forwards would make it less attractive to buy euro-zone government bonds.” BOJ Steps In to Buy Bonds Again as Traders Don’t Heed Signal (3) The yield on 10-year U.K. notes climbed five basis points to 1.33 percent as of 12.52 p.m. in London, while the rate on German bunds rose four basis points to 0.44 percent, the highest level since June 14. The yield on benchmark Treasuries rose three basis points to 2.98 percent, while Japanese 10-year yields ended the day in Asia little changed at 0.10 percent after touching 0.11 percent earlier. This is a modal window. CIBC’s Jeremy Stretch and JPMorgan Private Bank’s David Stubbs discuss BOJ policy. Tuesday’s meeting of the BOJ is likely to spur volatility in global assets. Investors may choose to look at the clock for a clue on policy makers’ thinking, given that decisions to alter monetary policy tend to take longer on average than when there is no change, according to Bloomberg calculations. The last time the BOJ expanded its monetary easing was on Oct. 31, 2014 -- during a single-day meeting --- and the yen tumbled by about 1 percent within 10 minutes of the release. In Europe, it could be French and Dutch bonds that are most exposed to any policy tweak, according to Commerzbank AG strategist Christoph Rieger. Japanese investors have large holdings in both, with the attractiveness of euro-area securities getting a boost earlier this year from favorable foreign-exchange dynamics. “The BOJ decision will be quite important given the significant footprint of Japanese investors in core bond markets,” said Rieger, who doesn’t expect a fundamental shift in policy. “No major changes to yield curve control tomorrow morning could trigger some relief.”