Follow @Brexit on Twitter, join our  Facebook group and sign up to our Brexit Bulletin. U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May won a crucial victory over pro-Brexit cabinet colleagues on Friday, as her government backed a wide-ranging plan to keep close trade ties with the European Union after leaving. The pound rose and the country’s main business lobby welcomed the proposal. May also stamped her authority on her Cabinet, warning colleagues that if they criticize government policy they must resign. Following a day of talks in her country residence, May’s Cabinet signed off on a blueprint for a new U.K.-EU “free trade area,” with interwoven customs regimes, and identical regulations for industrial and agri-food goods. There was no such plan for the country’s huge services sector, and London-based banks were warned they will lose their current levels of access to the EU market. New arrangements will seek to preserve the "mutual benefits of integrated markets.” “Today in detailed discussions the Cabinet has agreed our collective position for the future of our negotiations with the EU,” May said in a statement released by her office, with talks ongoing. “Now we must all move at pace to negotiate our proposal with the EU to deliver the prosperous and secure future all our people deserve.” After weeks of speculation about Cabinet resignations and leadership plots against her, the deal marks a significant milestone for May and for Brexit. The plan represents a closer relationship to the EU single market than many pro-Brexit campaigners hoped for when May first set out her plans in January last year. “Essentially it seems like May won, with some minor throwaway lines to placate the Brexiters,” said Sam Lowe, a senior researcher fellow at the Centre for European Reform. Pro-Brexit lawmakers exchanged complaints on their WhatsApp group, with former Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith saying: "I want to know what the Brexit Cabinet ministers were doing." Another pro-Brexit Conservative lawmaker, Andrew Bridgen, told Bloomberg: “This looks like a weak form of Brexit even before the EU negotiators weaken it further.” The EU’s chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier welcomed the discussions on Twitter, saying he looks forward to the so-called White Paper. Read more: Barnier Is Said to Face Calls Not to Shoot Down U.K. Brexit Plan There is now a chance that the negotiations between the U.K. and EU -- which have been stalled for weeks -- will be able to move forward toward concluding the divorce terms and mapping out the outline of a future trade deal by October. Lowe said: “The EU will not go along with this, but I’m interested to see if they string it out so as to get the withdrawal agreement over the line.” The future trade deal won’t be completed until long after Brexit day next March. The pressing priority now is to get the withdrawal agreement, which focuses on the divorce terms, agreed before exit day. On the future trading relationship, all the two sides need to do now is agree to a political statement of intent. But the premier still faces battles to come. First she must ensure that EU leaders at least agree to discuss her latest proposals, and don’t reject them out of hand. She’ll almost certainly face a backlash from Brexit true believers inside her Tory party in Parliament, with Jacob Rees-Mogg’s European Research Group likely to raise grave concerns over the proposals. The details of the government plan were released while ministers were still locked away in May’s Chequers manor house, 40 miles west of London. An immediate test will be what is said about the deal by euroskeptic ministers such as Brexit Secretary David Davis and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. They have been vocal in their concerns over May’s move towards a softer departure -- particularly her plan for keeping EU rules on goods, and a close customs partnership. This time she seems determined to face down critics. The Times reported that she is prepared to fire Johnson if he seeks to undermine the peace deal. In a letter to Conservative lawmakers, obtained by Bloomberg News, she wrote that while she has allowed Cabinet colleagues to “express their individual views” in the past, that privilege is now revoked. In her statement, May outlined what the Cabinet had agreed, and her office released a three-page document providing more detail. The details include: — With assistance by Chris Kingdon