Deutsche Bank AG surprised investors with second-quarter earnings that were higher than analysts had expected, driving one of Europe’s worst-performing bank stocks up the most in more than two years. The Frankfurt-based bank sees net income of about 400 million euros ($468 million) and income before income taxes of about 700 million euros, “considerably” above estimates, it said Monday. The preliminary results also point to stronger revenue than predicted. The earnings surprise is a rare piece of good news for Deutsche Bank investors that have seen the shares trading at a record low, a tumultuous management reshuffle and plan to reduce its global presence in its fourth major strategic overhaul in three years. New Chief Executive Officer Christian Sewing is cutting thousands of jobs and paring back businesses in the U.S. and Asia after recent attempts to restore profitability ended up eroding revenue. “Given valuation levels and the negative sentiment and newsflow around Deutsche Bank’s share price, we understand the positive market reaction today,” Daniele Brupbacher, an analyst at UBS Group AG, wrote in a note. “That said, at this point in time, we don’t think that the fundamental investment case changes.” Deutsche Bank shares rose as much as 9.3 percent on the news -- the most since April 2016 -- and were trading 7.2 percent higher at 12:46 p.m. in Frankfurt. Before today, the lender had been the worst-performing bank stock in Europe this year, down almost 40 percent. Group revenue will be about 6.6 billion euros, compared with a bank-compiled analyst forecast of 6.4 billion euros. The corporate and investment bank seems to have accounted for the lion’s share of that beat, but revenue at the unit included a 100 million-euro gain on an asset sale and debt valuation adjustments reflecting a widening of Deutsche Bank’s credit spreads during the quarter. Trading revenue, meanwhile, declined by 15 percent from a year earlier, worse than the 10 percent drop analysts had expected. “It’s not entirely clear where the beat is coming from, but if it’s mostly from widening credit spreads, then it’s probably not sustainable,” said Markus Riesselmann, an analyst with Independent Research who has a sell recommendation on the bank’s stock. “In fact, trading revenue seems to have decreased more than forecast, indicating that the bank still has a long way to go.” Sewing, who took over in April, is accelerating cost cuts and a pull-back from various investment banking activities around the globe. He’s committed to cutting over 7,000 jobs by the end of 2019, retrenching in costly trading businesses and effectively giving up on competing head to head with Wall Street firms. The filing on Monday showed that the bank shed 1,700 jobs in the quarter. “Management believes that these results demonstrate the resilience of the franchise,” Deutsche Bank said in the filing. The restructuring has “progressed rapidly,” it said.