Originally published by Joe Thompson on Hodinkee. The three-year luxury-watch slump in the United States is over. Swiss luxury-watch sales in the U.S., Switzerland's second largest export market, jumped substantially in the first half of 2018 versus the same period in 2017, according to three indicators, two for wholesale sales, the other for retail sales. The retail data came from the NDP Group, the market research company whose widely respected watch retail tracking service collects point-of-sale data from thousands of stores in the United States. "We're reporting that U.S. sales for watches above $1,000 are up 13.5% in value year-to-date," Reg Brack, NPD's watches and luxury industry analyst, told HODINKEE. Swiss watches dominate the market above $1,000. NPD's retail data is proprietary, private, and available only to its watch-industry clients. It is a widely used barometer of the health of the U.S. watch market. NPD's first-half data is in line with Swiss industry half-year wholesale sales data that indicates a recovery in the U.S. The Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry (FH) said exports to the United States jumped 9.1% to CHF 1.08 billion (the U.S. dollar figure is essentially the same; the franc and dollar were at virtual parity on June 30). Switzerland's Swatch Group, the world's largest watch company, with 18 watch brands, said it recorded a double-digit sales increase in the U.S. (it did not cite an exact percentage). The significance of the NPD data is that it indicates that Swiss watches are not just selling into retail stores, which is what the Swiss data shows, but actually selling through to consumers. Said Brack, "We see a genuine recovery." The rebound in the U.S. brightened Switzerland's already rosy scenario for watches in 2018. Globally, Swiss watch exports between January and June of this year enjoyed the largest percentage jump since the boom days of 2012, the FH said, up 10.5% to CHF 10.5 billion. Of Switzerland's top 30 markets, 23 reported increases. (All seven of the down markets were in Europe.) The Swatch Group boasted that it had "the best first semester sales in the history of the group," CHF 4.27 billion, a 14.7% increase over the same period in 2017. The company reported a 66.5% jump in net income to CHF 468 million. In a statement announcing the results, the Swatch Group said, "Impressive acceleration in both sales and quantities sold was reported across the board by all brands and in all price segments, not only in the prestige and luxury segment, but also in the middle and basic price segment." The Swatch Group had its highest first-half sales ever and has hired 1,200 people in the past 12 months. One sign of better times for the Swiss is that the Swatch Group, the industry's largest employer by far, is hiring again. The group added 800 employees in the first half of this year, "due to healthy growth and the introduction of many new products," the company said. Most of the new jobs were in Switzerland. The group's workforce totaled 36,200 at the end of June 2018 versus 35,000 at the end of June 2017. The main drivers of this year's boomlet, according to the FH, were Asian markets, mechanical watches, and relatively affordable steel watches. Mechanical-watch exports grew by double-digit percentages in both volume and value. Unit exports increased 13.6% to 3.8 million pieces. In value, mechanicals rose 11.3% to CHF 8.14 billion. That amounts to 82% of total export sales by value. Exports of electronic watches rose 6.4% in value, but dropped 3.8% in units to 7.85 million, continuing a steady, five-year decline. Watches with export prices in the CHF 500 to CHF 3,000 range showed the strongest growth, up 14.8% in volume and 16.9% in value. Overall, steel watch exports enjoyed a "steep rise," the FH said, up 500,000 units (it didn't give the total number). As a region, Asia – particularly the Far East -- had the strongest sales growth in value, +18.7%. Hong Kong, Switzerland's largest market, was up 29.5%. Other markets in the region up by double-digits were South Korea (+34.7%); Thailand (+28.0%); China (+13.4%); and Japan (+14.0%). But America, too, finally did its bit. The North American region had the second largest increase in watch exports by value, 9.1%, reflecting the fact that the sleeping American giant finally woke up. The booming U.S. economy is a big factor, industry executives say. So is a general revival in spending on luxury goods here, which is part of a global trend. Recent watch company efforts to clean up the overstocked U.S. market also helped. Asked by HODINKEE for an assessment of the turnaround in the U.S. market, NPD's Brack cited a number of developments in the $1,000-and-up segment of the U.S. watch market. While global Swiss watch sales this year are strongest in the $1,000 to $5,000 retail range, according to the FH, that's not the case in the U.S. Here watch sales are strongest at the very top of the price pyramid, according to NPD. Watches priced $5,000 and up accounted for nearly half the sales of the entire U.S. watch market in value. For the year through June, retail sales of watches priced $10,000 and up rose 16%, Brack said. In the $5,000 to $10,000 price segment, they increased 14%. "These two segments represent over 45% of the dollar share of the U.S. watch market," Brack said. Rolex and Patek Philippe together now hold a 70% share of the U.S. market for watches priced $10,000 and up, according to NPD. In general, the recovery is not lifting all Swiss luxury watch brands. It's more a case of the rich getting richer, Brack said. For example, the $10,000-and-up price point in the U.S. is dominated by two brands: Rolex and Patek Philippe. In the first half of this year, those two brands increased their market share at the expense of nearly all their competitors. "Those two monster brands combined represent over 70% of the U.S. dollar share of the $10,000-plus category," Brack said. "If you are a brand fighting for share in the U.S. in that price category, it’s daunting." A 70% share of the U.S. high luxury market by Geneva's Big Two brands is a staggering figure. Swiss sources tell HODINKEE that it is an anomaly, unique to the United States. The lion's share of those sales belongs to Rolex, whose annual production is said to be about 20 times that of Patek Philippe. (Neither brand releases official production data.) In the $5,000 to $10,000 category, the power brands Rolex, Omega, and Cartier gained share in the first half of the year, according to NPD. One factor, Brack said, is that Breitling and TAG Heuer have made strategic shifts, introducing more watches below $5,000. In general, Swiss brands that are less well known have difficulty competing in the U.S. market. That's particularly true in the $1,000 to $3,000 price range, Brack said. That price range is extremely competitive: "A lot of brands are struggling for [consumer] awareness." One new brand that is making inroads in the $5,000 to $10,000 price range in the U.S. is Japan's Grand Seiko. This year it appeared for the first time on NPD's list of the top 10 brands in the $5,000 to $10,000 price range. "They are making really good gains," Brack said. Another winner in that price point this year is the new Cartier Santos watch. NPD tracks sales of new models and has a list of top 10 newly introduced stock-keeping units. Said Brack, "Of the 10 top-performing new SKUs, three are new Santos models." Given that Cartier only started shipping the watch to stores in April, Brack said, the data indicates that Santos is a bona fide hit. A number of Swiss brands trimmed their U.S. wholesale network this year, among them Audemars Piguet, Patek Philippe, Rolex, Cartier, IWC Schaffhausen, and Panerai. All of those brands, Brack said, "are seeing double-digit increases on the year, despite a decline in door counts. Tighter distribution allows for increased productivity and can result in a faster turn." "Another good sign" for the U.S. market, Brack said, is that "we are seeing a recovery within the female segment for the first time in three-plus years." While there has been a trend for women to buy men's sized watches, sales of smaller watches designed for women spiked this year, Brack said. One factor is that more watch brands are marketing to women. "Masculine brands, like Tudor and TAG Heuer, are using female brand ambassadors. Tudor has done it with Lady Gaga. Possibly that strategy is working and women are focusing on some of the women's models of those brands." Another factor in the U.S. rebound is that Swiss watch companies have wised up about the danger of overloading the market with new products, Brack said. "That ends up flooding the grey market. So many brands now are hyper-aware of that. Brands are getting smarter about not forcing too much product down their wholesale partners' throats. Richemont led the charge with all the buybacks," he said, referring to Richemont's costly efforts over the past two years to buy back excess watch inventory in its wholesale network. "I think brands are much more lenient on the assortments that they encourage their wholesale partners to take. Even Rolex seems to be much more cooperative. "If anything, brands want to keep the consumer slightly hungry," Brack said. That has helped to tighten the market and make it healthier. “I've never seen anything like it in over 30 years of collecting Rolex myself.”  –Reg Brack of NPD It has also led to shortages for some high-demand models, especially from Rolex and Patek Philippe. "It's not just the Daytona anymore," Brack said of the Rolex shortages. "It's just about any steel Rolex, even the baseline Oyster Perpetuals. Many authorized dealers don't have any in stock. I've never seen anything like it in over 30 years of collecting Rolex myself, where virtually any sport model is never in stock. It's going to be that way for a long time with the Pepsi GMT. That and the Daytona are the obvious ones. The not so obvious one is just a regular steel Rolex OP." Same thing with the Patek Philippe Nautilus, Brack said. "There are waitlists for a regular 5711, their basic Nautilus." Sales of 5990 Nautilus, the Travel Time chronograph, the most expensive steel model, are very strong. "It's unbelievable. It's not like these are new models," Brack said, noting that the Nautilus was re-released 12 years ago. "And that's trickled down to the Aquanauts that are flying out of stores." It's not just Rolex and Patek Philippe. "There are other brands, too, having trouble keeping models in stock," Brack said. "As long as brands continue to make product that people are hungering for, I think the second half of 2018 is going to be tremendously strong. I feel really bullish about it." He's not alone. In its first-half review, the FH predicted that "the year seems likely to end on robust growth." The Swatch Group forecasts "continued strong growth" for the rest of this year. In fact, CEO Nick Hayek told Switzerland's Neue Zürcher Zeitung last week that double-digit growth is not out of the question, despite a tougher comparison with the second half of last year, which is when the recovery began. However, Hayek did express some concern about geopolitical uncertainties, particularly trade disputes between the U.S. and China, Switzerland's top watch markets. Tariff troubles aside, are happy days really here again for Swiss watchmakers? The folks with the data, there and here, seem to think so. Hodinkee is the preeminent resource for modern and vintage wristwatch enthusiasts. Through in-depth reviews, live reports, and dynamic videos, Hodinkee is bringing watches to a 21st-century audience.