Donald Trump’s threat to sanction Turkey for detaining an American pastor risks pushing the relationship between two key NATO members to its breaking point. Political disputes between Turkey and its western allies have been growing since President Recep Tayyip Erdogan orchestrated a crackdown on domestic opponents following a 2016 coup. More recently he ruffled feathers buying a Russian defensive missile system. On Thursday, Trump said in a tweet that the U.S. will “impose large sanctions” on Turkey unless it releases pastor Andrew Brunson, who’s accused of involvement in the uprising. “This would create a serious crisis within NATO,” said Ozgur Unluhisarcikli, Ankara director for the German Marshall Fund of the United States, a global think tank. “This would weaken not only Turkey, but the alliance itself.” Turkey has NATO’s second-largest military and sits at a key location between Europe and Asia. With about 1,500 American military personnel and aircraft -- as well as troops from Italy, Spain and elsewhere -- at Incirlik Air Base, it serves as staging point for the fight against Islamic State in neighboring Syria and played a vital role in stemming the flow of refugees heading toward Europe. Turkey also sits across the Black Sea from Russia, which uses the Turkish straits for sea access to the Mediterranean. If the Erdogan government were weakened by U.S. sanctions, that would allow Russia President Vladimir Putin to shift military resources away from his southwestern border and increase pressure in other areas, Unluhisarcikli said. Ukraine and the Baltic states might be among those most concerned. “If Turkey becomes less powerful militarily, the resources that Russia allocates to check Turkey could be sent elsewhere, simple as that,” he added. Ties between Turkey and its European allies have also been testy. Germany last year moved its own troops from Incirlik to Jordan after German lawmakers were denied access to the site. But Trump’s threat stands out because disagreements with an ally are usually settled quietly, said Jonathan Schanzer, senior vice president and a sanctions expert at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington. “This is such an escalation,” Schanzer said in a phone interview. “I’m jarred by the public nature of it.” Despite sharper tensions within the 29-nation alliance and growing dissatisfaction in the U.S. about Erdogan’s more authoritarian impulses, no guidelines exist for how Turkey or any other member could be ejected. “The idea is not to kick Turkey out, but the country is not acting like an ally,” Schanzer said. Before Trump’s Twitter salvo on Thursday, NATO’s supporters were more worried the U.S. president might try to withdraw. The alliance was buffeted at a Brussels summit earlier this month when Trump revived demands for other members to boost their defense spending and floated the idea of the U.S. “going it alone” if they don’t comply. On Thursday, a bipartisan group of U.S. senators including John McCain of Arizona and Tim Kaine of Virginia introduced legislation that would explicitly prohibit the president from withdrawing from NATO without Senate approval. But all the same, doubts about whether NATO members would honor their commitment to defend Turkey encouraged Erdogan to opt for the Russian missiles and risk pushing him closer to Putin. The Turkish leader has a longstanding beef with the U.S. for refusing to hand over Fethullah Gulen, an Islamic leader that Turkey blames for the failed coup attempt and who lives in Pennsylvania. Another major concern for Ankara is the threat of a multibillion-dollar fine against the state lender Halkbank. The bank is being investigated by the Southern District of New York after one of its executives was convicted of breaching sanctions against Iran. Erdogan has so far shown little indication he’s ready to back down over the U.S. pastor. But he has in the past offered the famously transactional U.S. president a deal: Brunson could be swapped for Gulen. “You have a pastor, so do we,” he said in speech last September. “You hand over one pastor and you can take the other pastor.” — With assistance by Onur Ant