U.S. equities joined a global rally that began in Asia as investors set aside concern about escalating trade tensions to focus on the coming earnings season. The pound erased gains after pro-Brexit official Boris Johnson quit as U.K. foreign secretary. The S&P 500 Index rose to the highest since mid-June and the Dow Jones Industrial Average popped through key technical levels. Miners and energy producers took the Stoxx Europe 600 Index to a fifth consecutive advance, the longest winning streak since March. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped the most in a month. The pound’s rally reversed after Johnson’s resignation threw the U.K. government into turmoil over negotiations to leave the European Union. The dollar strengthened against most major peers. Earlier, European bonds retreated as ECB executive board member Benoit Coeure played down any discussions of an “Operation Twist” for debt reinvestments. The Chinese yuan rebounded after its fourth weekly decline. The start of earnings season this week may divert some attention away from the trade war that’s kept global stocks under pressure, while data out Friday supported sentiment. The U.S. jobs report showed another month of gains in excess of 200,000, while German industrial production beat all estimates for May. Those signs of strength contrasted with protectionist tensions after China retaliated against U.S. tariff increases. “The markets, especially after the report on unemployment last week, seem to be pretty comfortable looking ahead and getting all the jitters about the trade war away,” Omar Aguilar, chief investment officer for equities at Charles Schwab Investment Management, said by phone. “Having the market paying more attention to earnings and fundamentals is clearly a good sign.” This is a modal window. Shahab Jalinoos, global head of FX trading strategy at Credit Suisse, discusses the outlook for the pound. Terminal users can read more in Bloomberg’s Markets Live blog. These are some events to look out for this week: Here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Eddie van der Walt