Stock futures are flat as the steel and aluminum tariff relief news was more or less telegraphed and earnings continue to pour in. The 10-year remains below 3% and many markets are closed for the May Day holiday. Reactions to earnings so far include BP climbing as much as 1.9% in London to its highest since 2010, Merck seeing an uptick on a beat-and-raise, Pfizer indicated lower after a beat-and-reaffirm, and Akamai rising more than 4%. Also the KLX Inc./Boeing deal hit the wires, though the fine print clearly wasn’t as expected for KLXI holders as that stock is down over 5% premarket after a weak session yesterday. Today will be a busy one, with more results hitting this morning (Cummins, Agco, Seagate, American Tower, and more), a couple of key eco data points (Markit PMIs, Construction Spending, ISM Manufacturing), and monthly auto sales sans General Motors. And we’ll get another dose of earnings tonight, like Snap, Juniper Networks, Western Union, and Mondelez. But all eyes will clearly be on Apple (see preview), which rose 1.8% yesterday for its biggest gain in three weeks after falling almost 9% in the prior eight sessions. Some Wall Streeters say the negativity over iPhone X concerns has been played out. Some are seeing a nice setup in the charts, while others say it’s all about the capital returns. Morgan Stanley estimates $150 billion in returns this year, including a dividend hike of as much as 50%, while one U.K. paper got attention for a splashy headline: "Apple Boss Tim Cook Mulls $400 Billion Payout to Shareholders" -- though scrolling further down puts the figure into better context: "Several analysts have predicted that Cook will hand shareholders $300 billion to $400 billion through dividends and a share buyback scheme over two to three years." Some of the biggest calls so far... DA Davidson initiated AAPL at a buy with a price target of $220 (or nearly $30 above the average target on the Street) on potential for buybacks, dividends and strategic acquisitions to counter the continues competitive rise of Amazon and Google... Wedbush put Facebook on its Best Ideas list while Goldman added CTXS to its conviction list and bumps the target to a Street-high $122 ahead of the May 8 analyst day... Morgan Stanley has wary earnings previews out on underweight-rated GoPro ("near-term estimates are still at risk) and FitBit ("checks saw weak restocking of older products")... and Mizuho slashed its price target on AGN to a Street-low $150 on a weaker growth outlook...