U.S. stocks gained the most in more than six months as corporate earnings provided a respite from tensions over trade and geopolitics. The dollar declined. The S&P 500 surged more than 2 percent, all 30 members of the Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced and small caps in the Russell 2000 Index notched the best gain since the day after the 2016 election. The Nasdaq Composite saw its biggest gain since March as UnitedHealth Group bolstered health-care firms and Adobe’s forecast lifted software makers. Technology stocks looked set to extend gains in the futures session as Netflix rallied on a surge in net subscribers. IBM fell in late trading as its revenue missed targets. Terminal subscribers can read more on Netflix earnings here. The dollar held near a two-week low and the 10-year Treasury yield traded around 3.15 percent as data showed U.S. factory production expanded in September. Oil edged higher amid tensions between the Saudi Arabia and the U.S. over the disappearance of a prominent journalist. “The third quarter, which is now underway, would be the first sign if you’re looking for a smoking gun for either tariffs or tightening conditions,” Jurrien Timmer, director of global macro at Fidelity Investments, said by phone. “People at this point want to be relieved or are feeling that things aren’t as bad as last week suggested.” Better results at the start of earnings season are giving many investors breathing room from concerns that a slowdown could be on the horizon. Netflix Inc. becomes the first large technology company to report after today’s close, while minutes from the latest Fed meeting should offer more clues a day later. In the background, traders are still grappling with continuing U.S.-China trade war rhetoric and geopolitical strains. Mohammed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz and Bloomberg Opinion columnist, talks global growth. Elsewhere, the pound climbed as leaders struck a conciliatory tone a day after Brexit negotiations broke down. The Turkish lira rose following seven days of gains after the country released U.S. pastor Andrew Brunson on Friday. In Asia, Japan’s equities outperformed, while Chinese shares retreated. Terminal readers can follow our Markets Live blog. Here are some key events coming up this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by John Ainger, Sarah Ponczek, and Yakob Peterseil